NEW SERIES.   SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1852.   PRICE 1-1/2d.

THE WOMAN OF THE WORLD.

We all know that there are certain conventional laws by which our social doings and seemings
are regulated; but what is the power which compels the observance of these laws? There is no
company police to keep people moving on, no fines or other penalties; nobody but the very outrageous
need fear being turned out of the room; we have every one of us strong inclinations and strong
will: then, how comes it that we get on so smoothly? Why are there no outbreaks of individual
character? How is it that we seem dovetailed into each other, as if we formed a homogeneous
mass? What is the influence which keeps up the weak and keeps down the strong, and spreads
itself like oil upon the boiling sea of human passion? We have a notion of our own, that all
this is the work of an individual of the female sex; and, indeed, even the most unconscious
and unreflecting would appear to assign to that individual her true position and authority,
in naming her the Woman of the World.

Society could never exist in a state of civilisation without the woman of the world. The man
of the world has his own department, his own métier; but She it is who keeps up the general
equilibrium. She is a calm, quiet, lady-like person, not obtrusive, and not easily put out
of the way. You do not know by external observation that she is in the room; you feel it instinctively.
The atmosphere she brings with her is peculiar, you cannot tell how. It is neither warm nor
chill, neither moist nor dry; but it is repressive. You do not move in it with natural freedom,
although you feel nothing that could be called gêne. Her manner is generally sweet, sometimes
even caressing, and you feel flattered and elevated as you meet her approving eye. But you
cannot get into it. There is a glassy surface, beautiful but hard, of which you can make nothing,
and presently you feel a kind of strangeness come over you, as if you were not looking into
the eye of a creature of your own kind. What you miss is sympathy.

It is to her want of sympathy the woman of the world owes her position. The same deficiency
is indispensable in the other individuals--such as a great monarch, or a great general--who
rule the fate of mankind; but with this difference, that in them it is partial and limited,
and in her universal. In them, it bears relation to their trade or mission; in her, it is a
peculiarity of her general nature. She is accused of inhumanity; of sporting with the feelings
of those about her, and rending, when they interfere with her plans, the strings of the heart
as ruthlessly as if they were fiddlestrings. But all that is nonsense. She does not, it is
true, ignore the existence of strings and feelings; on the contrary, they are in her eyes a
great fact, without which she could do nothing. But her theory is, that they are merely a superficial
net-work surrounding the character, the growth of education and other circumstances, and that
they may be twisted, broken, and fastened anew at pleasure by skilful fingers. No, she is not
inhumane. She works for others' good and her own greatness. Sighs and tears may be the result
of her operations; but so are they of the operations of the beneficent surgeon. She dislikes
giving pain, and comforts and sustains the patient to the best of her power; but at the most,
she knows sighs are but wind, and tears but water, and so she does her duty.

Although without sympathy, the woman of the world has great sensitiveness. She sits in the
room like a spider, with her web fitting as closely to the whole area as the carpet; and she
feels the slightest touch upon the slightest filament. So do the company: not understandingly
like her, but instinctively and unconsciously, like a fly who only knows that somehow or other
he is not at freedom. The thing that holds him is as soft and glossy and thin and small as
silk; but even while dallying with its smoothness and pleasantness, a misty, indefinite sensation
of impending danger creeps over him. Be quiet, little fly! Gently--gently: slip away if you
can--but no defiance, no tugging, no floundering, or you are lost!

A mythic story is told of the woman of the world: how in early life she was crossed in love;
how she lost faith in feelings that seemed to exist exceptionally only in her own solitary
bosom; and how a certain glassy hardness gathered upon her heart, as she sat waiting and waiting
for a response to the inner voices she had suffered to burst forth--

    The long-lost ventures of the heart,
    That send no answers back again!

But this is a fable. The woman of the world was never young--not while playing with her doll.
She grew just as you see her, and will suffer no change till the dissolution of the elements
of her body. Love-passages she has indeed had like other women; but the love was all on one
side, and that side not hers. It is curious to observe the passion thus lavished in vain. It
reminds one of the German story of the Cave of Mirrors, where a fairy damsel, with beckoning
hand and beseeching eyes, was reflected from a thousand angles. The pursuing lover, endeavouring
to clasp his mistress, flung himself from one illusory image to another, finding only the sharp,
polished, glittering glass in his embrace, till faint, breathless, and bleeding, he sank upon
the ground.

The woman of the world, though a dangerous mistress, is an agreeable friend. She is partial
to the everyday married lady, when presentable in point of dress and manners, and overwhelms
her with little condescending kindnesses and caresses. This good lady, on her part, thinks
her patroness a remarkably clever woman; not that she understands her, or knows exactly what
she is about; but somehow or other she is sure she is prodigiously clever. As for the everyday
young lady, who has a genius for reverence, she reveres her; and these two, with their male
congeners, are the dress-figures the woman of the world places about her rooms like ivory pieces
on a chessboard.

This admirable lady is sometimes a mother, and she is devotedly fond of her children, in their
future. She may be seen gazing in their faces by the hour; but the picture that is before her
mind's eye is the fulfilment of their present promise. An ordinary woman would dawdle away
her time in admiring their soft eyes, and curly hair, and full warm cheeks; but the woman of
the world sees the bud grown into the expanded flower, and the small cradle is metamorphosed
into the boudoir by the magic of her maternal love. And verily, she has her reward: for death
sometimes comes, to wither the bud, and disperse the dream in empty air. On such an occasion,
her grief, as we may readily suppose, is neither deep nor lasting, for its object is twined
round her imagination, not her heart. She regrets her wasted hopes and fruitless speculations;
but the baby having never been present in its own entity, is now as that which has never been.
The unthinking call her an unnatural mother, for they make no distinction. They do not know
that death is with her a perfectly arranged funeral, a marble tablet, a darkened room, an attitude
of wo, a perfumed handkerchief. They do not consider that when she lies down to rest, her eyes,
in consequence of over-mental exertion, are too heavy with sleep to have room for tears. They
do not reflect that in the morning she breaks into a new consciousness of reality from the
clinging dreams of her maternal ambition, and not from the small visionary arms, the fragrant
kiss, the angel whisper of her lost babe. They do not feel that in opening upon the light,
her eyes part with the fading gleam of gems and satin, and kneeling coronets, and red right
hands extending wedding-rings, and not with a winged and baby form, soaring into the light
by which it is gradually absorbed, while distant hymns melt and die upon her ear.

The woman of the world is sometimes prosperous in her reign over society, and sometimes otherwise.
Even she submits, although usually with sweetness and dignity, to the caprices of fortune.
Occasionally, the threads of her management break in such a way, that, with all her dexterity,
she is unable to reunite them: occasionally, the strings and feelings are too strong to rend;
and occasionally, in rending, the whole system falls to pieces. Her daughter elopes, her son
marries the governess, her husband loses his seat in parliament; but there are other daughters
to marry, other sons to direct, other honours to win; and so this excellent woman runs her
busy and meritorious career. But years come on at last, although she lingers as long as she
can in middle life; and, with her usual graceful dignity, she settles down into the reward
the world bestows on its veterans, an old age of cards.

Even now, she sometimes turns round her head to look at the things and persons around her,
and to exult in the reputation she has earned, and the passive influence her name still exercises
over society; but, as a rule, the kings and queens and knaves take the place of human beings
with this woman of genius; the deepest arcana of her art are brought into play for the odd
trick, and her pride and ambition are abundantly gratified by the circumvention of a half-crown.

The woman of the world at length dies: and what then? Why, then, nothing--nothing but a funeral,
a tablet, dust, and oblivion. This is reasonable, for, great as she was, she had to do only
with the external forms of life. Her existence was only a material game, and her men and women
were only court and common cards; diamonds and hearts were alike to her, their value depending
on what was trumps. She saw keenly and far, but not deeper than the superficial net-work of
the heart, not higher than the ceiling of the drawing-room. Her enjoyments, therefore, were
limited in their range; her nature, though perfect in its kind, was small and narrow; and her
occupation, though so interesting to those concerned, was in itself mean and frivolous. This
is always her misfortune, the misfortune of this envied woman. She lives in a material world,
blind and deaf to the influences that thrill the bosoms of others. No noble thought ever fires
her soul, no generous sympathy ever melts her heart. Her share of that current of human nature
which has welled forth from its fountain in the earthly paradise is dammed up, and cut off
from the general stream that overflows the world. None of those minute and invisible ducts
connects it with the common waters which make one feel instinctively, lovingly, yearningly,
that he is not alone upon the earth, but a member of the great human family. And so, having
played her part, she dies, this woman of the world, leaving no sign to tell that an immortal
spirit has passed: nothing above the ground but a tablet, and below, only a handful of rotting
bones and crumbling dust.

MARIE DE LA TOUR.

The basement front of No. 12 Rue St Antoine, a narrow street in Rouen, leading from the Place
de la Pucelle, was opened by Madame de la Tour, in the millinery business, in 1817, and tastefully
arranged, so far as scant materials permitted the exercise of decorative genius. She was the
widow of a once flourishing courtier maritime (ship-broker), who, in consequence of some unfortunate
speculations, had recently died in insolvent circumstances. At about the same time, Clément
Derville, her late husband's confidential clerk, a steady, persevering, clever person, took
possession of the deceased ship-broker's business premises on the quay, the precious savings
of fifteen years of industrious frugality enabling him to install himself in the vacant commercial
niche before the considerable connection attached to the well-known establishment was broken
up and distributed amongst rival courtiers. Such vicissitudes, frequent in all trading communities,
excite but a passing interest; and after the customary commonplaces commiserative of the fallen
fortunes of the still youthful widow, and gratulatory good-wishes for the prosperity of the
ci-devant clerk, the matter gradually faded from the minds of the sympathisers, save when the
rapidly rising fortunes of Derville, in contrast with the daily lowlier ones of Madame de la
Tour, suggested some tritely sentimental reflection upon the precariousness and instability
of all mundane things. For a time, it was surmised by some of the fair widow's friends, if
not by herself, that the considerable services Derville had rendered her were prompted by a
warmer feeling than the ostensible one of respect for the relict of his old and liberal employer;
and there is no doubt that the gentle, graceful manners, the mild, starlit face of Madame de
la Tour, had made a deep impression upon Derville, although the hope or expectation founded
thereon vanished with the passing time. Close, money-loving, business-absorbed as he might
be, Clément Derville was a man of vehement impulse and extreme susceptibility of female charm--weaknesses
over which he had again and again resolved to maintain vigilant control, as else fatal obstacles
to his hopes of realising a large competence, if not a handsome fortune. He succeeded in doing
so; and as year after year glided away, leaving him richer and richer, Madame de la Tour poorer
and poorer, as well as less and less personally attractive, he grew to marvel that the bent
form, the clouded eyes, the sorrow-sharpened features of the woman he occasionally met hastening
along the streets, could be those by which he had been once so powerfully agitated and impressed.

He did not, however, form any new attachment; was still a bachelor at forty-five; and had for
some years almost lost sight of, and forgotten, Madame de la Tour, when a communication from
Jeanne Favart, an old servant who had lived with the De la Tours in the days of their prosperity,
vividly recalled old and fading memories. She announced that Madame de la Tour had been for
many weeks confined to her bed by illness, and was, moreover, in great pecuniary distress.

'Diantre!' exclaimed Derville, a quicker and stronger pulse than usual tinging his sallow cheek
as he spoke. 'That is a pity. Who, then, has been minding the business for her?'

'Her daughter Marie, a gentle, pious child, who seldom goes out except to church, and,' added
Jeanne, with a keen look in her master's countenance, 'the very image of the Madame de la Tour
we knew some twenty years ago.'

'Ha!' M. Derville was evidently disturbed, but not so much so as to forget to ask with some
asperity if 'dinner was not ready?'

'In five minutes,' said Jeanne, but still holding the half-opened door in her hand. 'They are
very, very badly off, monsieur, those unfortunate De la Tours,' she persisted. 'A huissier
this morning seized their furniture and trade-stock for rent, and if the sum is not made up
by sunset, they will be utterly ruined.'

M. Clément Derville took several hasty turns about the room, and the audible play of his fingers
amongst the Napoleons in his pockets inspired Jeanne with a hope that he was about to draw
forth a sufficient number for the relief of the cruel necessities of her former mistress. She
was mistaken. Perhaps the touch of his beloved gold stilled for a time the agitation that had
momentarily stirred his heart.

'It is a pity,' he murmured; and then briskly drawing out his watch, added sharply: 'But pray
let us have dinner. Do you know that it is full seven minutes past the time that it should
be served?'

Jeanne disappeared, and M. Derville was very soon seated at table. But although the sad tidings
he had just heard had not been able to effectually loosen his purse-strings, they had at least
power utterly to destroy his appetite, albeit the poulet was done to a turn. Jeanne made no
remark on this, as she removed the almost untasted meal, nor on the quite as unusual fact,
that the wine carafe was already half emptied, and her master himself restless, dreamy, and
preoccupied. Concluding, however, from these symptoms, that a fierce struggle between generosity
and avarice was going on in M. Derville's breast, she quietly determined on bringing an auxiliary
to the aid of generosity, that would, her woman's instinct taught her, at once decide the conflict.

No doubt the prosperous ship-broker was unusually agitated. The old woman's news had touched
a chord which, though dulled and slackened by the heat and dust of seventeen years of busy,
anxious life, still vibrated strongly, and awakened memories that had long slept in the chambers
of his brain, especially one pale Madonna face, with its soft, tear-trembling eyes that----
'Ciel!' he suddenly exclaimed, as the door opened and gave to view the very form his fancy
had conjured up: 'Ciel! can it be---- Pshaw!' he added, as he fell back into the chair from
which he had leaped up; 'you must suppose me crazed, Mademoiselle--Mademoiselle de la Tour,
I am quite certain.'

It was indeed Marie de la Tour whom Jeanne Favart had, with much difficulty, persuaded to make
a personal appeal to M. Derville. She was a good deal agitated, and gladly accepted that gentleman's
gestured invitation to be seated, and take a glass of wine. Her errand was briefly, yet touchingly
told, but not apparently listened to by Derville, so abstracted and intense was the burning
gaze with which he regarded the confused and blushing petitioner. Jeanne, however, knew whom
he recognised in those flushed and interesting features, and had no doubt of the successful
result of the application.

M. Clément Derville had heard and comprehended what was said, for he broke an embarrassing
silence of some duration by saying, in a pleased and respectful tone: 'Twelve Napoleons, you
say, mademoiselle. It is nothing: here are twenty. No thanks, I beg of you. I hope to have
an opportunity of rendering you--of rendering Madame de la Tour, I mean, some real and lasting
service.'

Poor Marie was profoundly affected by this generosity, and the charming blushfulness, the sweet-toned
trembling words that expressed her modest gratitude, were, it should seem, strangely interpreted
by the excited ship-broker. The interview was not prolonged, and Marie de la Tour hastened
with joy-lightened steps to her home.

Four days afterwards, M. Derville called at the Rue St Antoine, only to hear that Madame de
la Tour had died a few hours previously. He seemed much shocked; and after a confused offer
of further pecuniary assistance, respectfully declined by the weeping daughter, took a hurried
leave.

There is no question that, from the moment of his first interview with her, M. Derville had
conceived an ardent passion for Mademoiselle de la Tour--so ardent and bewildering as not only
to blind him to the great disparity of age between himself and her--which he might have thought
the much greater disparity of fortune in his favour would balance and reconcile--but to the
very important fact, that Hector Bertrand, a young menuisier (carpenter), who had recently
commenced business on his own account, and whom he so frequently met at the charming modiste's
shop, was her accepted, affianced lover. An éclaircissement, accompanied by mortifying circumstances,
was not, however, long delayed.

It occurred one fine evening in July. M. Derville, in passing through the marché aux fleurs,
had selected a brilliant bouquet for presentation to Mademoiselle de la Tour; and never to
him had she appeared more attractive, more fascinating, than when accepting, with hesitating,
blushing reluctance, the proffered flowers. She stepped with them into the little sitting-room
behind the shop; M. Derville followed; and the last remnant of discretion and common-sense
that had hitherto restrained him giving way at once, he burst out with a vehement declaration
of the passion which was, he said, consuming him, accompanied, of course, by the offer of his
hand and fortune in marriage. Marie de la Tour's first impulse was to laugh in the face of
a man who, old enough to be her father, addressed her in such terms; but one glance at the
pale face and burning eyes of the speaker, convinced her that levity would be ill-timed--possibly
dangerous. Even the few civil and serious words of discouragement and refusal with which she
replied to his ardent protestations, were oil cast upon flame. He threw himself at the young
girl's feet, and clasped her knees in passionate entreaty, at the very moment that Hector Bertrand,
with one De Beaune, entered the room. Marie de la Tour's exclamation of alarm, and effort to
disengage her dress from Derville's grasp, in order to interpose between him and the new-comers,
were simultaneous with several heavy blows from Bertrand's cane across the shoulders of the
kneeling man, who instantly leaped to his feet, and sprang upon his assailant with the yell
and spring of a madman. Fortunately for Bertrand, who was no match in personal strength for
the man he had assaulted, his friend De Beaune promptly took part in the encounter; and after
a desperate scuffle, during which Mademoiselle de la Tour's remonstrances and entreaties were
unheard or disregarded, M. Derville was thrust with inexcusable violence into the street.

According to Jeanne Favart, her master reached home with his face all bloody and discoloured,
his clothes nearly torn from his back, and in a state of frenzied excitement. He rushed past
her up stairs, shut himself into his bedroom, and there remained unseen by any one for several
days, partially opening the door only to receive food and other necessaries from her hands.
When he did at last leave his room, the impassive calmness of manner habitual to him was quite
restored, and he wrote a note in answer to one that had been sent by Mademoiselle de la Tour,
expressive of her extreme regret for what had occurred, and enclosing a very respectful apology
from Hector Bertrand. M. Derville said, that he was grateful for her sympathy and kind wishes;
and as to M. Bertrand, he frankly accepted his excuses, and should think no more of the matter.

This mask of philosophic indifference or resignation was not so carefully worn but that it
slipped occasionally aside, and revealed glimpses of the volcanic passion that raged beneath.
Jeanne was not for a moment deceived; and Marie de la Tour, the first time she again saw him,
perceived with woman's intuitive quickness through all his assumed frigidity of speech and
demeanour, that his sentiments towards her, so far from being subdued by the mortifying repulse
they had met with, were more vehemently passionate than ever! He was a man, she felt, to be
feared and shunned; and very earnestly did she warn Bertrand to avoid meeting, or, at all events,
all possible chance of collision with his exasperated, and, she was sure, merciless and vindictive
rival.

Bertrand said he would do so; and kept his promise as long as there was no temptation to break
it. About six weeks after his encounter with M. Derville, he obtained a considerable contract
for the carpentry work of a large house belonging to a M. Mangier--a fantastic, Gothic-looking
place, as persons acquainted with Rouen will remember, next door but one to Blaise's banking-house.
Bertrand had but little capital, and he was terribly puzzled for means to purchase the requisite
materials, of which the principal item was Baltic timber. He essayed his credit with a person
of the name of Dufour, on the quay, and was refused. Two hours afterwards, he again sought
the merchant, for the purpose of proposing his friend De Beaune as security. Dufour and Derville
were talking together in front of the office; and when they separated on Bertrand's approach,
the young man fancied that Derville saluted him with unusual friendliness. De Beaune's security
was declined by the cautious trader; and as Bertrand was leaving, Dufour said, half-jestingly
no doubt: 'Why don't you apply to your friend Derville? He has timber on commission that will
suit you, I know; and he seemed very friendly just now.' Bertrand made no reply, and walked
off, thinking probably that he might as well ask the statue of the 'Pucelle' for assistance
as M. Derville. He was, naturally enough, exceedingly put out, and vexed; and unhappily betook
himself to a neighbouring tavern for 'spirituous' solacement--a very rare thing, let me add,
for him to do. He remained there till about eight o'clock, and by that time was in such a state
of confused elation from the unusual potations he had imbibed, that Dufour's suggestion assumed
a sort of drunken likelihood; and he resolved on applying--there could not, he thought, be
any wonderful harm, if no good, in that--to the ship-broker. M. Derville was not at home, and
the office was closed; but Jeanne Favart, understanding Bertrand to say that he had important
business to transact with her master--she supposed by appointment--shewed him into M. Derville's
private business-rooms, and left him there. Bertrand seated himself, fell asleep after awhile,
woke up about ten o'clock considerably sobered, and quite alive to the absurd impropriety of
the application he had tipsily determined on, and was about to leave the place, when M. Derville
arrived. The ship-broker's surprise and anger at finding Hector Bertrand in his house were
extreme, and his only reply to the intruder's stammering explanation, was a contemptuous order
to leave the place immediately. Bertrand slunk away sheepishly enough; and slowly as he sauntered
along, had nearly reached home, when M. Derville overtook him.

'One word, Monsieur Bertrand,' said Derville. 'This way, if you please.'

Bertrand, greatly surprised, followed the ship-broker to a lane close by--a dark, solitary
locality, which suggested an unpleasant misgiving, very pleasantly relieved by Derville's first
words.

'Monsieur Bertrand,' he said, 'I was hasty and ill-tempered just now; but I am not a man to
cherish malice, and for the sake of--of Marie--of Mademoiselle de la Tour, I am disposed to
assist you, although I should not, as you will easily understand, like to have any public or
known dealings with you. Seven or eight hundred francs, I understood you to say, the timber
you required would amount to?'

'Certainly not more than that, monsieur,' Bertrand contrived to answer, taken away as his breath
nearly was by astonishment.

'Here, then, is a note of the Bank of France for one thousand francs.'

'Monsieur!--monsieur!' gasped the astounded recipient.

'You will repay me,' continued Derville, 'when your contract is completed; and you will please
to bear strictly in mind, that the condition of any future favour of a like kind is, that you
keep this one scrupulously secret.' He then hurried off, leaving Bertrand in a state of utter
amazement. This feeling, however, slowly subsided, especially after assuring himself, by the
aid of his chamber-lamp, that the note was a genuine one, and not, as he had half feared, a
valueless deception. 'This Monsieur Derville,' drowsily murmured Bertrand as he ensconced himself
in the bed-clothes, 'is a bon enfant, after all--a generous, magnanimous prince, if ever there
was one. But then, to be sure, he wishes to do Marie a service by secretly assisting her futur
on in life. Sapristie! It is quite simple, after all, this generosity; for undoubtedly Marie
is the most charming--charm--cha'----

Hector Bertrand went to Dufour's timber-yard at about noon the next day, selected what he required,
and pompously tendered the thousand-franc note in payment. 'Whe-e-e-e-w!' whistled Dufour,
'the deuce!' at the same time looking with keen scrutiny in his customer's face.

'I received it from Monsieur Mangier in advance,' said Hector in hasty reply to that look,
blurting out in some degree inadvertently the assertion which he had been thinking would be
the most feasible solution of his sudden riches, since he had been so peremptorily forbidden
to mention M. Derville's name.

'It is very generous of Monsieur Mangier,' said Dufour; 'and he is not famous for that virtue
either. But let us go to Blaise's bank: I have not sufficient change in the house, and I daresay
we shall get silver for it there.'

As often happens in France, a daughter of the banker was the cashier of the establishment;
and it was with an accent of womanly commiseration that she said, after minutely examining
the note: 'From whom, Monsieur Bertrand, did you obtain possession of this note?'

Bertrand hesitated. A vague feeling of alarm was beating at his heart, and he confusedly bethought
him, that it might be better not to repeat the falsehood he had told M. Dufour. Before, however,
he could decide what to say, Dufour answered for him: 'He says from Monsieur Mangier, just by.'

'Strange!' said Mademoiselle Blaise. 'A clerk of Monsieur Derville's has been taken into custody
this very morning on suspicion of having stolen this very note.'

Poor Bertrand! He felt as if seized with vertigo; and a stunned, chaotic sense of mortal peril
shot through his brain, as Marie's solemn warning with respect to Derville rose up like a spectre
before him.

'I have heard of that circumstance,' said Dufour. And then, as Bertrand did not, or could not
speak, he added: 'You had better, perhaps, mademoiselle, send for Monsieur Derville.'

This proposition elicited a wild, desperate cry from the bewildered young man, who rushed distractedly
out of the banking-house, and hastened with frantic speed towards the Rue St Antoine--for the
moment unpursued.

Half an hour afterwards, Dufour and a bank-clerk arrived at Mademoiselle de la Tour's. They
found Bertrand and Marie together, and both in a state of high nervous excitement. 'Monsieur
Derville,' said the clerk, 'is now at the bank; and Monsieur Blaise requests your presence
there, so that whatever misapprehension exists may be cleared up without the intervention of
the agents of the public force.'

'And pray, monsieur,' said Marie, in a much firmer tone than, from her pale aspect, one would
have expected, 'what does Monsieur Derville himself say of this strange affair?'

'That the note in question, mademoiselle, must have been stolen from his desk last evening.
He was absent from home from half-past seven till ten, and unfortunately left the key in the lock.'

'I was sure he would say so,' gasped Bertrand. 'He is a demon, and I am lost.'

A bright, almost disdainful expression shone in Marie's fine eyes. 'Go with these gentlemen,
Hector,' she said; 'I will follow almost immediately; and remember'---- What else she said
was delivered in a quick, low whisper; and the only words she permitted to be heard were: 'Pas
un mot, si tu m'aime' (Not a word, if thou lovest me).

Bertrand found Messieurs Derville, Blaise, and Mangier in a private room; and he remarked,
with a nervous shudder, that two gendarmes were stationed in the passage. Derville, though
very pale, sustained Bertrand's glance of rage and astonishment without flinching. It was plain
that he had steeled himself to carry through the diabolical device his revenge had planned,
and the fluttering hope with which Marie had inspired Bertrand died within him. Derville repeated
slowly and firmly what the clerk had previously stated; adding, that no one save Bertrand,
Jeanne Favart, and the clerk whom he first suspected, had been in the room after he left it.
The note now produced was the one that had been stolen, and was safe in his desk at half-past
seven the previous evening. M. Mangier said: 'The assertion of Bertrand, that I advanced him
this note, or any other, is entirely false.'

'What have you to say in reply to these grave suspicions?' said M. Blaise. 'Your father was
an honest man; and you, I hear, have hitherto borne an irreproachable character,' he added,
on finding that the accused did not speak. 'Explain to us, then, how you came into possession
of this note; if you do not, and satisfactorily--though, after what we have heard, that seems
scarcely possible--we have no alternative but to give you into custody.'

'I have nothing to say at present--nothing,' muttered Bertrand, whose impatient furtive looks
were every instant turned towards the door.

'Nothing to say!' exclaimed the banker; 'why, this is a tacit admission of guilt. We had better
call in the gendarmes at once.'

'I think,' said Dufour, 'the young man's refusal to speak is owing to the entreaties of Mademoiselle
de la Tour, whom we overheard implore him, for her sake, or as he loved her, not to say a word.'

'What do you say?' exclaimed Derville, with quick interrogation, 'for the sake of Mademoiselle
de la Tour! Bah! you could not have heard aright.'

'Pardon, monsieur,' said the clerk who had accompanied Dufour: 'I also distinctly heard her
so express herself--but here is the lady herself.'

The entrance of Marie, accompanied by Jeanne Favart, greatly surprised and startled M. Derville;
he glanced sharply in her face, but unable to encounter the indignant expression he met there,
quickly averted his look, whilst a hot flush glowed perceptibly out of his pale features. At
her request, seconded by M. Blaise, Derville repeated his previous story; but his voice had
lost its firmness, his manner its cold impassibility.

'I wish Monsieur Derville would look me in the face,' said Marie, when Derville had ceased
speaking. 'I am here as a suppliant to him for mercy.'

'A suppliant for mercy!' murmured Derville, partially confronting her.

'Yes; if only for the sake of the orphan daughter of the Monsieur de la Tour who first helped
you on in life, and for whom you not long since professed regard.'

Derville seemed to recover his firmness at these words: 'No,' he said; 'not even for your sake,
Marie, will I consent to the escape of such a daring criminal from justice.'

'If that be your final resolve, monsieur,' continued Marie, with kindling, impressive earnestness,
'it becomes necessary that, at whatever sacrifice, the true criminal--whom assuredly Hector
Bertrand is not--should be denounced.'

Various exclamations of surprise and interest greeted these words, and the agitation of Derville
was again plainly visible.

'You have been surprised, messieurs,' she went on, 'at Hector's refusal to afford any explanation
as to how he became possessed of the purloined note. You will presently comprehend the generous
motive of that silence. Monsieur Derville has said, that he left the note safe in his desk
at half-past seven last evening. Hector, it is recognised, did not enter the house till nearly
an hour afterwards; and now, Jeanne Favart will inform you who it was that called on her in
the interim, and remained in the room where the desk was placed for upwards of a quarter of
an hour, and part of that time alone.'

As the young girl spoke, Derville's dilated gaze rested with fascinated intensity upon her
excited countenance, and he hardly seemed to breathe.

'It was you, mademoiselle,' said Jeanne, 'who called on me, and remained as you describe.'

A fierce exclamation partially escaped Derville, forcibly suppressed as Marie resumed: 'Yes;
and now, messieurs, hear me solemnly declare, that as truly as the note was stolen, I, not
Hector, was the thief.'

''Tis false!' shrieked Derville, surprised out of all self-possession; 'a lie! It was not then
the note was taken; not till--not till'----

'Not till when, Monsieur Derville?' said the excited girl, stepping close to the shrinking,
guilty man, and still holding him with her flashing, triumphant eyes, as she placed her hand
upon his shoulder; 'not till when was the note taken from the desk, monsieur?'

He did not, could not reply, and presently sank, utterly subdued, nerveless, panic-stricken,
into a chair, with his white face buried in his hands.

'This is indeed a painful affair,' said M. Blaise, after an expectant silence of some minutes,
'if it be, as this young person appeared to admit; and almost equally so, Monsieur Derville,
if, as I more than suspect, the conclusion indicated by the expression that has escaped you
should be the true one.'

The banker's voice appeared to break the spell that enchained the faculties of Derville. He
rose up, encountered the stern looks of the men by one as fierce as theirs, and said hoarsely:
'I withdraw the accusation! The young woman's story is a fabrication. I--I lent, gave the fellow
the note myself.'

A storm of execration--'Coquin! voleur! scélérat!' burst forth at this confession, received
by Derville with a defiant scowl, as he stalked out of the apartment.

I do not know that any law-proceedings were afterwards taken against him for defamation of
character. Hector kept the note, as indeed he had a good right to do, and Monsieur and Madams
Bertrand are still prosperous and respected inhabitants of Rouen, from which city Derville
disappeared very soon after the incidents just related.

CHEAP MINOR RAILWAYS.

'On the day that our preamble was proved, we had all a famous dinner at three guineas a head--never
saw such a splendid set-out in my life! each of us had a printed bill of fare laid beside his
plate; and I brought it home as quite a curiosity in the way of eating!' Such was the account
lately given us by a railway projector of that memorable year of frenzy, 1845. A party of committee-men,
agents, engineers, and solicitors, had, in their exuberance of cash, dined at a cost of some
sixty guineas--a trifle added to the general bill of charges, and of course not worth thinking
of by the shareholders.

These days of dining at three guineas a head for the good of railway undertakings are pretty
well gone; and agents and counsel may well sigh over the recollection of doings probably never
to return.

'The truth is, we were all mad in those times,' added the individual who owned so candidly
to the three-guinea dinner. And this is the only feasible way of accounting for the wild speculations
of seven years ago. There was a universal craze. All hastened to be rich on the convenient
principle of overreaching their neighbours. There was robbery throughout. Engineers, landholders,
law-agents, and jobbers, pocketed their respective booties, and it is needless to say who were
left to suffer.

Looking at the catastrophe, the subject of railway mismanagement is somewhat too serious for
a joke, and we have only drawn attention for an instant to the errors of the past in order
to draw a warning for the future. It must ever be lamented that the introduction of so stupendous
and useful a thing as locomotion by rail, should have become the occasion of such widespread
cupidity and folly; for scarcely ever had science offered a more gracious boon to mankind.
It is charitable to think that the foundation of the great error that was committed, lay in
a miscalculation as to the relation between expenditure and returns. We can suppose that there
was a certain faith in the potency of money. To spend so much, was to bring back so much; and
it became an agreeable delusion, that the more was spent, the greater was to be the revenue.
Unfortunately, it does not seem to have occurred to any one of the parties concerned, that
all depends on how money is spent. There are tradesmen, we imagine, who know to their cost,
that it is quite within the bounds of possibility to have the whole of their profits swept
away by rent and taxes. Curious, that this plain and unpleasant and very possible result did
not dawn on the minds of the great railway interests. And yet, how grave and calculating the
mighty dons of the new system of locomotion--men who passed themselves off as up to anything!

Wonderfully acute secretaries; highly-polished chairmen; directors disdainful of ordinary ways
of transacting business. A mystery made of the most common-place affairs! We may be thankful
that the world has at last seen through these pretenders to superhuman sagacity. With but remarkably
few exceptions, the great railway men of the time have committed the grossest blunders; and
the stupidest blunder of all, has been the confounding of proper and improper expenditure;
just as if a shopkeeper were to fall into the unhappy error of imagining that his returns were
to be in the ratio, not of the business he was to do, but of his private and unauthorised expenses.

The instructive fact gathered from railway experience is, that there is an expenditure which
pays, and an expenditure that is totally wasteful. Directors have made the discovery, that
costly litigation, costly and fine stations, fine porticos and pillars, fine bridges, and finery
in various other things, contribute really nothing to returns, but, on the contrary, hang a
dead weight on the concern. No doubt, fine architecture is a good and proper thing in itself;
but a railway company is not instituted for the purpose of embellishing towns with classic
buildings. Its function is to carry people from one place to another on reasonable terms, with
a due regard to the welfare of those who undertake the transaction. How carriages may be run
well and cheaply, yet profitably, is the sole question for determination; and everything else
is either subordinate or positively useless. A suitable degree of knowledge on these points
would, we think, tend materially to restore confidence in railway property. Could there be
anything more cheering than the well-ascertained fact, that no railway has ever failed for
want of traffic? In every instance, the traffic would have yielded an ample remuneration to
the shareholders, had there been no extravagant expenditure. Had the outlays been confined
to paying for the land required, the making of the line, the laying down of rails, the buying
locomotives and carriages, and working the same, all would have gone on splendidly; and eight,
ten, twenty, and even a higher per cent., would in many instances have been realised. At the
present moment, the lines that are paying best are not those on which there is the greatest
amount of traffic, but those on which there was the most prudent expenditure. In order to judge
whether any proposed railway will pay, it is only necessary to inquire at what cost per mile,
all expenses included, it is to be produced. If the charge be anything under L.5000 per mile,
there is a certainty of its doing well, even if the line be carried through a poorly-populated
district; and up to L.20,000 per mile is allowable in great trunk-thoroughfares; but when the
outlay reaches L.50,000 or L.100,000 per mile, as it has done in some instances, scarcely any
amount of traffic will be remunerative. In a variety of cases, the expenditure per mile has
been so enormous, that remunerative traffic becomes a physical impossibility. In plain terms,
if the whole of these lines, from end to end, were covered with loaded carriages from morning
to night, and night to morning, without intermission of a single moment, they would still be
carried on at a loss! Gold may be bought too dearly, and so may railways.

As there seems to be an appearance of a revival in railway undertakings, it will be of the
greatest importance to keep these principles in view; and we are glad to observe that, taking
lessons from the past, the promoters of railway schemes are confining their attention mainly
to plans of a simple and economical class. Hitherto, railways have, for the most part, been
adapted to leading thoroughfares, by which certain districts have been overcrowded with lines,
leaving others destitute. Branch single lines of rail appear, therefore, to be particularly
desirable for these forgotten localities. These branch-lines may prove exceedingly serviceable,
not only as regards the ordinary demands of trade and agriculture, but those of social convenience.
Among the prominent needs of our time, is ready access for the toiling multitudes to places
rendered interesting by physical beauty and romantic association--fit objects for holiday excursions.
The excursion train, suddenly discharging its hundreds of strangers at some antique town or
castle, or in the neighbourhood of some lovely natural scenery, is one of the wonders of the
day--and one, we think, of truly good omen, considering the importance that seems to be connected
with the innocent amusements of the people. We rejoice in every movement which tends to increase
the number of places to which these holiday-parties may resort, as we thoroughly believe, that
the more of them we have, our people will be the more virtuous, refined, and happy.

We lately had much pleasure in examining and learning some particulars of a short branch-railway
which has added the ancient university city of St Andrews, with its many curious objects, to
the number of those places which may become the termini of excursion trains. We find from Lord
Jeffrey's Life, that in this town, fifty years ago, only one newspaper was received; a number
(if it can be called a number) which we are assured, on the best authority, is now increased
to fifteen hundred per week! Parallel with this fact, is that of its having, ten years ago,
a single coach per diem to Edinburgh, carrying six or seven persons, while now it has three
trains each day, transporting their scores, not merely to the capital, but to Perth and Dundee
besides. Conceiving that there is a value in such circumstances on account of the light which
they throw on the progress of the country, we shall enter into a few particulars.

The St Andrews Railway is a branch of the Edinburgh, Perth, and Dundee, and extends somewhat
less than five miles. Formed with a single line only, over ground presenting scarcely any engineering
difficulties, and with favour rather than opposition from the proprietors of the land, it has
cost only L.25,000, or about L.5000 per mile. The main line agrees to work it, and before receiving
payment, to allow the shareholders 4-1/2 per cent. for their money; all further profits to
be divided between the two companies, after paying working expenses. It was opened on the 1st
July last, and hitherto the appearances of success have been most remarkable. On an assumption
that the traffic inwards was equal to that outwards, the receipts for passengers during each
of the first six weeks averaged L.52, 14s. This was exclusive of excursion trains, of which
one carried 500 persons, another between 500 and 600, a third 1500; and so on. It was also
exclusive of goods and mineral traffic, which are expected to give at least L.1000 per annum.
The result is, that this railway appears likely to draw not much under L.4000 a year--a sum
sufficient, after expenses are paid, to yield what would at almost any time be a high rate
of percentage to the shareholders, while, in the present state of the money-market, it will
be an unusually ample remuneration.

We have instanced this economically-constructed line, because we have seen it in operation,
and can place reliance on the facts connected with its financial affairs. Other lines, however,
more or less advanced, seem to have prospects equally hopeful. A similar branch is about to
be made from the same main line to the town of Leven. One is projected to branch from the Eskbank
station of the North British line to Peebles--a pretty town on the Tweed, which, up till the
present time, has been secluded from general intercourse, and will now, for the first time,
have its beautiful environs laid open to public observation. The entire cost of this line,
rather more than 18 miles in length, is to be only L.70,000, or about L.3600 per mile. Another
branch from the same line is projected to go to Lauder. One, of the same cheap class, is to
connect Aberdeen with Banchory on the Dee. Another will be constructed between Blairgowrie
and a point on the Scottish Midland. For such adventures, St Andrews is a model.[1]

The time is probably not far distant when single branch-lines will radiate over the country,
developing local resources, as well as uniting the whole people in friendly and profitable
intercourse. To be done rightly, however, rational foresight and the plain principles of commerce
must inspire the projectors. It will be necessary to avoid all parliamentary contests; to do
nothing without a general movement of the district in favour of the line, so that no parties
may be sacrificed for the benefit of others; to hold rigorously to an economical principle
of construction; to launch out into no extravagant plans in connection with the main object
contemplated. These being attended to, we can imagine that, in a few years hence, there will
be a set of modest little railways which will be the envy of all the great lines, simply because
they enjoy the distinction denied to their grander brethren, of paying, and which will not
only serve important purposes in the industrial economy of the country, but vastly promote
the moral wellbeing of the community, in furnishing a means of harmless amusement to those
classes whose lot it is to spend most of their days in confinement and toil.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Since the materials of this brief paper were obtained, another short line has been opened,
extending between Elgin and Lossie-mouth. It is said to have also enjoyed in its first few
weeks an amount of traffic far beyond the calculations of the shareholders.

THE HUMOUR OF SOUTHEY.

Some of the critics of 'Robert the Rhymer, who lived at the lakes,' seem to be of opinion,
that his 'humour' is to be classed with such nonentities as the philosopher's stone, pigeon's
milk, and other apocryphal myths and unknown quantities. In analysing the character of his
intellect, they would assign to the 'humorous' attribute some such place as Van Troil did to
the snaky tribe in his work on Iceland, wherein the title of chapter xv. runs thus: 'Concerning
Snakes in Iceland' and the chapter itself thus: 'There are no snakes in Iceland.' Accordingly,
were they to have the composition of this article, they would abbreviate it to the one terse
sentence: 'Robert Southey had no humour.' Now, we have no inclination to claim for the Keswick
bard any prodigious or pre-eminent powers of fun, or to give him place beside the rollicking
jesters and genial merry-makers, whose humour gives English literature a distinctive character
among the nations. But that he is so void of the comic faculty as certain potent authorities
allege, we persistently doubt. Another reviewer warned the author of the Doctor, that there
is no greater mistake than that which a grave person falls into, when he fancies himself humorous;
adding, as a consolatory corollary to this proposition, that unquestionably the doctor himself
was in this predicament. But Southey was not so rigorously grave a person as his graver writings
might seem to imply. 'I am quite as noisy as ever I was,' he writes to an old Oxford chum,
when in sober manhood. 'Oh, dear Lightfoot, what a blessing it is to have a boy's heart! it
is as great a blessing in carrying one through this world, as to have a child's spirit will
in fitting us for the next.' On account of this boyish-heartedness, he is compared by Justice
Talfourd to Charles Lamb himself: 'In a certain primness of style, bounding in the rich humour
which overflowed it, they were nearly akin; both alike reverenced childhood, and both had preserved
its best attributes unspotted from the world.' In the fifty-fifth year of his age, he characterised
himself as a man

                ----by nature merry,
    Somewhat Tom-foolish, and comical, very;
    Who has gone through the world, not unmindful of pelf,
    Upon easy terms, thank Heaven, with himself,
    Along bypaths, and in pleasant ways,
    Caring as little for censure as praise;
    Having some friends, whom he loves dearly,
    And no lack of foes, whom he laughs at sincerely;
    And never for great, nor for little things,
    Has he fretted his guts[2] to fiddle-strings.
    He might have made them by such folly
    Most musical, most melancholy.

No one can dip into the Doctor without being convinced of this buoyancy of spirit, quickness
of fancy, and blitheness of heart. It even vents its exuberance in bubbles of levity and elaborate
trifling, so that all but the very light-hearted are fain to say: Something too much of this.
Compared with our standard humorists--the peerage, or Upper House, who sit sublimely aloft,
like 'Jove in his chair, of the sky my lord mayor'--Southey may be but a dull commoner, one
of the third or fourth estate. But for all that, he has a comfortable fund of the vis comica,
upon which he rubs along pleasantly enough, hospitably entertaining not a few congenial spirits
who can put up with him as they find him, relish his simple and often racy fare, and enjoy
a decent quantum of jokes of his own growing, without pining after the brilliant banquets of
comedy spread by opulent barons of the realm.

To support this apology for the worthy doctor by plenary proof, would involve a larger expenditure
of space and letter-press than befits the economy of a discreet hebdomadal journal. We can
but allude, and hint, and suggest, and illustrate our position in an 'off-at-a-tangent' sort
of way. Look, for instance, at his ingenious quaintness in the matter of onomatology. What
a name, he would say, is Lamb for a soldier, Joy for an undertaker, Rich for a pauper, or Noble
for a tailor; Big for a lean or little person, and Small for one who is broad in the rear and
abdominous in the van; Short for a fellow six feet without his shoes, or Long for him whose
high heels barely elevate him to the height of five; Sweet for one who has either a vinegar
face, or a foxy complexion; Younghusband for an old bachelor; Merryweather for any one in November
or February, a black spring, a cold summer, or a wet autumn; Goodenough for a person no better
than he should be; Toogood for any human creature; and Best for a subject who is perhaps too
bad to be endured. Amusing, too, are the doctor's reasons for using the customary alias of
female Christian names--never calling any woman Mary, for example, though Mare, being the sea,
was, he said, too emblematic of the sex; but using a synonyme of better omen, and Molly therefore
was to be preferred as being soft. 'If he accosted a vixen of that name in her worst mood,
he mollified her. Martha he called Patty, because it came pat to the tongue. Dorothy remained
Dorothy, because it was neither fitting that women should be made Dolls nor Idols. Susan with
him was always Sue, because women were to be sued; and Winifred Winny, because they were to
be won.' Or refer to that pleasant bit of erudite trifling upon the habits of rats, beginning
with the remark, that wheresoever Man goes Rat follows or accompanies him, town or country
being equally agreeable to him; entering upon your house as a tenant-at-will--his own, not
yours--working out for himself a covered-way in your walls, ascending by it from one storey
to another, and leaving you the larger apartments, while he takes possession of the space between
floor and ceiling, as an entresol for himself. 'There he has his parties, and his revels, and
his gallopades--merry ones they are--when you would be asleep, if it were not for the spirit
with which the youth and belles of Rat-land keep up the ball over your head. And you are more
fortunate than most of your neighbours, if he does not prepare for himself a mausoleum behind
your chimney-piece or under your hearthstone, retire into it when he is about to die, and very
soon afford you full proof that though he may have lived like a hermit, his relics are not
in the odour of sanctity. You have then the additional comfort of knowing, that the spot so
appropriated will thenceforth be used as a common cemetery or a family-vault.' In the same
vein, homage is paid to Rat's imitation of human enterprise: shewing how, when the adventurous
merchant ships a cargo for some foreign port, Rat goes with it; how, when Great Britain plants
a colony at the antipodes, Rat takes the opportunity of colonising also; how, when ships are
sent out on a voyage of discovery, Rat embarks as a volunteer; doubling the stormy Cape with
Diaz, arriving at Malabar with Gama, discovering the New World with Columbus, and taking possession
of it at the same time, and circumnavigating the globe with Magellan, and Drake, and Cook.

Few that have once read will forget the Doctor's philological contributions towards an amended
system of English orthography. Assuming the propriety of discarding all reference to the etymology
of words, when engaged in spelling them, and desirous, as a philological reformer, to establish
a truly British language, he proposes introducing a distinction of genders, in which the language
has hitherto been defective. Thus, in anglicising the orthography of chemise, he resolves that
foreign substantive into the home-grown neologisms, masculine and feminine, of Hemise and Shemise.
Again, in letter-writing, every person, he remarks, is aware that male and female letters have
a distinct sexual character; they should, therefore, be generally distinguished thus--Hepistle
and Shepistle. And as there is the same marked difference in the writing of the two sexes,
he proposes Penmanship and Penwomanship. Erroneous opinions in religion being promulgated in
this country by women as well as men, the teachers of such false doctrines he would divide
into Heresiarchs and Sheresiarchs. That troublesome affection of the diaphragm, which every
person has experienced, is, upon the same principle, to be called, according to the sex of
the patient, Hecups and Shecups; which, upon the above principle of making our language truly
British, is better than the more classical form of Hiccups and Hoeccups; and then in its objective
use we have Hiscups and Hercups; and in like manner Histerics should be altered into Herterics,
the complaint never being masculine.

None but a 'humorist' would have announced the decease of a cat in such mingled terms and tones
of jest and earnest as the following:--'Alas! I should not have written to you at present had
it not been to notify this event.' The notification of such events, in print too, appears to
some thinkers too absurd. Others find a special interest in these 'trifles light as air,' because
presenting 'confirmation strong' of the kindly nature of the man, taking no unamiable or affected
part in the presentment of Every Man in His Humour. His correspondence is, indeed, rich in
traits of quiet humour, if by that word we understand a 'humane influence, softening with mirth
the ragged inequalities of existence'--the very 'juice of the mind oozing from the brain, and
enriching and fertilising wherever it falls'--and seldom far removed from its kindred spirit,
pathos, with which, however, it is not too closely akin to marry; for pathos is bound up in
mysterious ties with humour--bone of its bone, and flesh of its flesh. That he could succeed
tolerably in the mock-heroic vein, may be seen in his parody on Pindar's ariston men hydor,
entitled Gooseberry Pie, and in some of the occasional pieces called Nondescripts. Nor do we
know any one of superior ingenuity in that overwhelming profusion of epithets and crowded creation
of rhymes, which so tickle the ear and the fancy in some of his verses, and of which we have
specimens almost unrivalled in the celebrated description of the cataract of Lodore, and the
vivaciously ridiculous chronicle of Napoleon's march to Moscow.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Southey was no purist in his phraseology at times. The not very refined monosyllable in
the text may, however, be tolerated as having a technical relation to the fiddle-strings by
hypothesis.

[3] This patrician Bawdrons is not forgotten in Southey's verse; thus--

    Our good old cat, Earl Tomlemagne,
      Is sometimes seen to play,
    Even like a kitten at its sport,
      Upon a warm spring-day.

TRACKS OF ANCIENT ANIMALS IN SANDSTONE.

Many of our readers must have heard of the interest excited a few years ago by the discovery,
that certain marks on the surface of slabs of sandstone, raised from a quarry in Dumfriesshire,
were the memorials of extinct races of animals. The amiable and intelligent Dr Duncan, minister
of Ruthwell, who had conferred on society the blessing of savings-banks for the industrious
poor, was the first to describe to the world these singular chronicles of ancient life. The
subject was afterwards brought forward in a more popular style by Dr Buckland, in his lively
book, the Bridgewater Treatise on Geology. Since then, examples of similar markings have been
found in several other parts of Europe, and a still greater number in America.

Dumfriesshire is still the principal locality of these curious objects in our island; and they
are found not only in the original spot--the quarry of Corncockle Muir, but in another quarry
at Craigs, near the town of Dumfries. Ample collections of them have been made by Sir William
Jardine, the famed naturalist, who happens to be proprietor of Corncockle Quarry, and by Mr
Robert Harkness of Dumfries, a young geologist, who seems destined to do not a little for the
illustration of this and kindred subjects. Meanwhile, Sir William Jardine has published an
elegant book, containing a series of drawings, in which the slabs of Corncockle are truthfully
represented.[4]

The Annandale footmarks are impressed on slabs of the New Red Sandstone--a formation not long
subsequent to the coal, and remarkable for its comparative deficiency of fossils, as if there
had been something in its constitution unfavourable to the preservation of animal remains.
It is curious to find that, while this is the case, it has been favourable to the preservation
of what appears at first sight a much more accidental and shadowy memorial of life--the mere
impression which an animal makes on a soft substance with its foot. Yet such fully appears
to be the fact. The sandstone slabs of Corncockle, lying in their original place with a dip
of about 33 degrees to the westward, and separating with great cleanness and smoothness, present
impressions of such liveliness, that there is no possibility of doubt as to their being animal
foot-tracks, and those of the tortoise family. A thin layer of unctuous clay between the beds
has proved favourable to their separation; and it is upon this intervening substance that the
marks are best preserved. Slab after slab is raised from the quarry--sometimes a foot thick,
sometimes only a few inches--and upon almost every one of them are impressions found. What
is very remarkable, the tracks or series of footprints pass, almost without exception, in a
direction from west to east, or upwards against the dip of the strata. It is surmised that
the strata were part of a beach, inclining, however, at a much lower angle, from which the
tide receded in a westerly direction. The animals, walking down from the land at recess of
tide, passed over sand too soft to retain the impressions they left upon it; but when they
subsequently returned to land, the beach had undergone a certain degree of hardening sufficient
to receive and retain impressions, 'though these,' says Sir William, 'gradually grow fainter
and less distinct as they reach the top of the beds, which would be the margin of drier sands
nearer the land.' He adds: 'In several instances, the tracks on one slab which we consider
to have been impressed at the same time, are numerous, and left by different animals travelling
together. They have walked generally in a straight line, but sometimes turn and wind in several
directions. This is the case in a large extent of surface, where we have tracks of above thirty
feet in length uncovered, and where one animal had crossed the path of a neighbour of a different
species. The tracks of two animals are also met with, as if they had run side by aide.'

With regard to the nature of the evidence in question, Dr Buckland has very justly remarked,
that we are accustomed to it in our ordinary life. 'The thief is identified by the impression
which his shoe has made near the scene of his depredations. The American savage not only identifies
the elk and bison by the impression of their hoofs, but ascertains also the time that has elapsed
since the animal had passed. From the camel's track upon the sand, the Arab can determine whether
it was heavily or lightly laden, or whether it was lame.' When, therefore, we see upon surfaces
which we know to have been laid down in a soft state, in a remote era of the world's history,
clear impressions like those made by tortoises of our own time, it seems a legitimate inference,
that these impressions were made by animals of the tortoise kind, and, consequently, such animals
were among those which then existed, albeit no other relic of them may have been found. From
minute peculiarities, it is further inferred, that they were tortoises of different species
from any now existing. Viewing such important results, we cannot but enter into the feeling
with which Dr Buckland penned the following remarks:--'The historian or the antiquary,' he
says, 'may have traversed the fields of ancient or of modern battles; and may have pursued
the line of march of triumphant conquerors, whose armies trampled down the most mighty kingdoms
of the world. The winds and storms have utterly obliterated the ephemeral impressions of their
course. Not a track remains of a single foot, or a single hoof, of the countless millions of
men and beasts whose progress spread desolation over the earth. But the reptiles that crawled
upon the half-finished surface of our infant planet, have left memorials of their passage,
enduring and indelible. No history has recorded their creation or destruction; their very bones
are found no more among the fossil relics of a former world. Centuries and thousands of years
may have rolled away between the time in which those footsteps were impressed by tortoises
upon the sands of their native Scotland, and the hour when they were again laid bare and exposed
to our curious and admiring eyes. Yet we behold them, stamped upon the rock, distinct as the
track of the passing animal upon the recent snow; as if to shew that thousands of years are
but as nothing amidst eternity--and, as it were, in mockery of the fleeting, perishable course
of the mightiest potentates among mankind.'

The formation of the slabs, and the preservation of the footprints, are processes which the
geologist can easily explain. A beach on which animals have left the marks of their feet, becomes
sufficiently hardened to retain the impressions; another layer of sand or mud is laid down
by perhaps the next tide, covering up the first, and protecting it from all subsequent injury.
Thousands of years after, the quarryman breaks up the layers, and finds on the one surface
the impression of the animal, while the lower face of the superincumbent layer presents a cast
of that impression, thus giving us in fact a double memorial of one event. At Wolfville, on
the Bay of Fundy, Sir Charles Lyell some years ago observed a number of marks on the surface
of a red marly mud which was gradually hardening on the sea-shore. They were the footprints
of the sand-piper, a bird of which he saw flights daily running along the water's edge, and
often leaving thirty or more similar impressions in a straight line, parallel to the borders
of the estuary. He picked up some slabs of this dried mud, and splitting one of them up, found
a surface within which bore two lines of the same kind of footprints. Here is an example before
our living eyes, of the processes concerned in producing and preserving the fossil footprints
of the New Red Sandstone.

Some years after the Annandale footprints had attracted attention, some slab surfaces of the
same formation in Saxony and England were found bearing an impression of a more arresting character.
It resembled the impression that would be made by the palm and extended fingers and thumb of
the human hand, but a hand much thicker and flabbier than is commonly seen. The appropriate
name of Cheirotherium was proposed for the unknown extinct animal which had produced these
marks. The dimensions in the several examples were various; but 'in all cases the prints of
what appear to have been the hind-feet are considerably larger than those of the fore-feet;
so much so, indeed, that in one well-preserved slab containing several impressions, the former
measures eight inches by five, and the latter not more than four inches by three. In this specimen,
the print of the fore-foot is not more than an inch and a half in advance of that of the hinder
one, although the distance between the two successive positions of the same foot, or the length
of a pace of the animal, is fourteen inches. It therefore appears, that the animal must have
had its posterior extremities both much larger and much longer than the anterior; but this
peculiarity it possessed in common with many existing species, such as the frog, the kangaroo,
&c.; and beyond this and certain appearances in the sandstone, as if a tail had been dragged
behind the animal, in some sets of footsteps, but not in others, there is nothing to suggest
to the comparative anatomist any idea of even the class of Vertebrata to which the animal should
be referred.'[5] Soon after, some teeth and fragments of bones were discovered, by which Professor
Owen was able to indicate an animal of the frog-family (Batrachia), but with certain affinities
to the saurian order (crocodiles, &c.), and which must have been about the size of a large
pig. It has been pretty generally concluded, that this colossal frog was the animal which impressed
the hand-like foot-prints.

At a later period, footprints of birds were discovered upon the surfaces of a thin-bedded sandstone
belonging to the New Red formation on the banks of the Connecticut River, in North America.
The birds, according to Sir Charles Lyell, must have been of various sizes; some as small as
the sand-piper, and others as large as the ostrich, the width of the stride being in proportion
to the size of the foot. There is one set, in which the foot is nineteen inches long, and the
stride between four and five feet, indicating a bird nearly twice the size of the African ostrich.
So great a magnitude was at first a cause of incredulity; but the subsequent discovery of the
bones of the Moa or Dinornis of New Zealand, proved that, at a much later time, there had been
feathered bipeds of even larger bulk, and the credibility of the Ornithichnites Giganteus has
accordingly been established. Sir Charles Lyell, when he visited the scene of the footprints
on the Connecticut River, saw a slab marked with a row of the footsteps of the huge bird pointed
to under this term, being nine in number, turning alternately right and left, and separated
from each other by a space of about five feet. 'At one spot, there was a space several yards
square, where the entire surface of the shale was irregular and jagged, owing to the number
of the footsteps, not one of which could be distinctly traced, as when a flock of sheep have
passed over a muddy road; but on withdrawing from this area, the confusion gradually ceased,
and the tracks became more and more distinct.'[6] Professor Hitchcock had, up to that time,
observed footprints of thirty species of birds on these surfaces. The formation, it may be
remarked, is one considerably earlier than any in which fossil bones or other indications of
birds have been detected in Europe.

In the coal-field of Westmoreland county, Pennsylvania, there were discovered in 1844, slabs
marked with footprints bearing a considerable resemblance to those of the Cheirotherium, and
believed to have been impressed by an animal of the same family, though with some important
points of distinction. The hind-feet are not so much larger than the fore; and the two on each
side, instead of coming nearly into one row, as in the European Cheirotherium, stand widely
apart. The impressions look such as would be made by a rudely-shaped human hand, with short
fingers held much apart; there is some appearance as if the fingers had had nails; and a protuberance
like the rudiment of a sixth finger appears at the side. This was the first indication of reptile
life so early as the time of the coal-formation; but as the fossil remains of a reptile have
now been found in Old Red Sandstone, at Elgin, in Scotland, the original importance of the
discovery in this respect may be regarded as lessened.

Last year, some slabs from Potsdam, in Canada, were brought to England, and deposited in the
museum of the Geological Society. Belonging as these slabs do to a formation coeval with those
in which the earliest fossils were hitherto found, it was startling to find them marked with
numerous foot-tracks of what appeared to have been reptiles. It seemed to shew, that the inhabitants
of the world in that early age were not quite so low in the scale of being as had previously
been assumed from the facts known; and that all attempts to describe, from positive knowledge,
anything like a progression of being on the face of our globe, were at least premature. Professor
Owen had, at first, scarcely any hesitation in pronouncing the footprints to be those of tortoises;
but he afterwards changed his views, and expressed his belief that the impressions had been
produced by small crustacean animals. Thus the views previously entertained regarding the invertebrate
character of the fauna of the Silurian epoch, have ultimately remained unaffected, so far as
these Potsdam slabs are concerned.

Slabs of sandstone and shale often retain what is called the ripple-mark--that is, the corrugation
of surface produced by the gentle agitation of shallow water over sand or mud. We can see these
appearances beneath our feet, as we walk over the pavement of almost any of our cities. Such
slabs are also occasionally marked by irregular protuberances, being the casts of hollows or
cracks produced in ancient tide-beaches by shrinkage. In many instances, the footprints of
animals are marked by such lines passing through them, shewing how the beach had dried and
cracked in the sun after the animals had walked over it. In the quarries at Stourton, in Cheshire,
some years ago, a gentleman named Cunningham observed slab surfaces mottled in a curious manner
with little circular and oval hollows, and these were finally determined to be the impressions
produced by rain--the rain of the ancient time, long prior to the existence of human beings,
when the strata were formed! Since then, many similar markings have been observed on slabs
raised from other quarries, both in Europe and America; and fossil rain-drops are now among
the settled facts of geology. Very fine examples have been obtained from quarries of the New
Red Sandstone at Newark and Pompton, in New Jersey. Sir Charles Lyell has examined these with
care, and compared them with the effects of modern rain on soft surfaces of similar materials.
He says, they present 'every gradation from transient rain, where a moderate number of drops
are well preserved, to a pelting shower, which, by its continuance, has almost obliterated
the circular form of the cavities. In the more perfectly preserved examples, smaller drops
are often seen to have fallen into cavities previously made by larger ones, and to have modified
their shape. In some cases of partial interference, the last drop has obliterated part of the
annular margin of a former one; but in others it has not done so, for the two circles are seen
to intersect each other. Most of the impressions are elliptical, having their more prominent
rims at the deeper end [a consequence of the rain falling in a slanting direction]. We often
see on the under side of some of these slabs, which are about half an inch thick, casts of
the rain-drops of a previous shower, which had evidently fallen when the direction of the wind
was not the same. Mr Redfield, by carefully examining the obliquity of the imprints in the
Pompton quarries, ascertained that most of them implied the blowing of a strong westerly wind
in the triassic period at that place.' A certain class of the impressions at Pompton are thought
to be attributable to hail, 'being deeper and much more angular and jagged than the rain-prints,
and having the wall at the deeper end more perpendicular, and occasionally overhanging.'[7]

FOOTNOTES:

[4] Ichnology of Annandale. Lizars, Edinburgh. 1851.

[5] Ansted's Introduction to Geology, i. 303.

[6] Lyell's Travels in North America, i. 254.

[7] Quarterly Journal of Geological Society, April, 1851.

AITON'S TRAVELS.

A work in any department of general literature rarely appears from the pen of a clergyman in
the Church of Scotland, and therefore that to which we are about to refer, under the title
noted beneath,[8] is in some respects a curiosity. The writer, a minister settled in a mountainous
parish in Lanarkshire, may be said to have made a remarkable escapade for one in his obscure
situation and reverend calling. With an immense and unclerical flow of animal spirits, evidently
as fond of travelling as old William Lithgow, and as garrulous as Rae Wilson, of whose class
he is a surviving type, Dr Aiton is quite the man to take a journey to the Holy Land; for no
difficulty in the way of toil, heat, hunger, creeping or winged insects, wild beasts, or still
wilder savages, disturbs his equanimity. He also never hesitates to use any expression that
comes uppermost. He explicitly observes, that 'no man with the capacity of a hen,' should fail
to contribute such information as he possesses on the sacred regions he has traversed. Alluding
to some circumstances in the voyage of St Paul, he says he has 'no desire to cook the facts.'
He talks of a supposition being 'checkmated.' And in going along the coast of Spain, he mentions
that he took care to have 'a passing squint at Cape St Vincent.' Many similar oddities break
out in the course of the narrative; not that we care much about them one way or other; it is
only to be regretted that the author has by this looseness of expression, and his loquacious
dragging in of passages from Scripture on all occasions, also by his inveterate love of anecdotic
illustration, done what he could to keep down a really clever book to an inferior standard
of taste. We would hope, however, that candid readers will have a kindly consideration of the
author's intentions, and pass over much that is prosy and ridiculous for the sake of what is
original and interesting. Traversing lands that have been described a hundred times before,
it might be supposed that little was left for Dr Aiton to pick up; yet every traveller has
his own method of observation. In justice to the doctor, it must be acknowledged that he made
a judicious use of time during his travels in the East, and has told us many amusing particulars
of what he saw. There is, at least, always a certain graphic painting in his off-hand descriptions;
as, for instance, his notice of an incident that occurred on his arrival in Egypt.

'On landing at Alexandria I saw a ship unloading, and box by box were being handed to the lighter,
according to the number each respectively bore. Some mistake, more or less important, had apparently
been made by one of the native operatives on the occasion. Instantly two sticks were laid on
his head with dreadful effect. The poor fellow seemed to be stunned and stupified for a time.
On this account it probably happened, that he fell into a second similar blunder, when a stick
was thrown, not horizontally, but perpendicularly, and so aimed that it struck the socket of
the eye. In one moment he lost the sight of it, and the ball hung by a ligament on his cheek.
He uttered a hideous yell, and staggered; notwithstanding of which other two cudgels were applied
to his arm while he had the power to hold it up in protection of his head. Horror of horrors!
I thought, verily in the fulfilment of prophecy, God has been pleased to curse this garden
and granary of the world, and to permit foreigners terribly to tyrannise over its degraded
people.' Proceeding onward to Cairo: 'What a hurry-skurry there was in the dark in getting
into the vans at the hotel-door to be conveyed to the Mahmoudie Canal! When I arrived, I found
the barge in which we were to be conveyed both very confined and dirty. But it proceeded at
tolerable speed, drawn by horses which were pursued by well-mounted Arabs yelling, lashing,
and cracking with their whips. We all passed a fearful night of suffocation and jambing, fasting
and feasted on by millions. Some red-coated bedlamites, unfortunately infatuated with wine,
had to be held from jumping overboard. The ramping and stamping, and roaring and scrambling
for room to sit or lie, was horrific. At last the day dawned, when matters were not quite so
bad; but we moved over our fifty miles of ditch-water to Atfeh in a manner the most uncomfortable
any poor sinners ever suffered.'

The account given of his entry to Cairo is also strikingly faithful. 'When I landed at Boulac,
another Oriental scene of novelty was presented. Crowds of men and women, all in their shirts
only--lazy looking-on watermen calling for employment, porters packing luggage on the camels,
donkey-boys, little active urchins, offering their asses, crying: "Here him best donkey"--"you
Englese no walk"--"him kick highest"--"him fine jackass"--"me take you to Cairo." There were
also plenty of custom-house folks demanding fees to which they had no right, and sturdy rascals
seeking buckshish, and miserable beggars imploring alms. Walking through this promiscuous crowd,
with all the dignity they could muster, there were venerable sheiks, or Egyptian oolema, with
white turbans, and long silvery beards, and tawny sinister faces. And there were passengers
not a few, with a carpet-bag in the one hand and a lady hanging on the other arm, crowding
from the deck to the shore.

'The moment I mounted the stair at the pier of Boulac, I found myself in the red dusky haze
of an Egyptian atmosphere. It was near noon, and the rays of the hot sun trembled over the
boundless Valley of the Nile on to the minarets of Cairo, and further still to the sombre Pyramids.
Now, indeed, the scene before me presented a superb illusion of beauty. The bold range of the
Mockattam Mountains, its craggy summits cut clearly out in the sky, seemed to run like a promontory
into a sea of the richest verdure; here, wavy with breezy plantations of olives; there, darkened
with acacia groves. Just where the mountain sinks upon the plain, the citadel stands on its
last eminence, and widely spread beneath lies the city--a forest of minarets, with palm-trees
intermingled, and the domes of innumerable mosques rising and glittering over the sea of houses.
Here and there, green gardens are islanded within that ocean, and the whole is girt round with
picturesque towers, and ramparts occasionally revealed through vistas of the wood of sycamores
and fig-trees that surround it. From Boulac I was conveyed to the British Hotel at Cairo, the
Englishman's home in Egypt, conducted by Mr Shepherd, the Englishman's friend in the East.
The approach to Grand Cairo is charming and cheering, and altogether as fanciful as if I had
been carried with Aladin's lamp in my hand through a fairy region to one of the palaces mentioned
in the Arabian Nights of Entertainment. I passed along a broad level path, full of life and
fancy, amid groves and gardens, and villas all glittering in grandeur. At every turn, something
more Oriental and magnificent than anything I had yet seen presented itself. Along the level,
broad highway, a masquerading-looking crowd was swarming towards Cairo. Ladies, wrapped closely
in white veils, were carrying water on their heads. Long rows of dromedaries loaded with luggage
were moving stately forward. Donkeys at full canter, one white man riding, and two black men
driving and thumping the poor brutes most unmercifully with short thick sticks, were winding
their way through the throng. Ladies enveloped in flowing robes of black silk, and veiled up
to the eyes, were sitting stride-leg on richly-caparisoned asses, shewing off with pomp a pair
of yellow morocco slippers, which appeared on their feet from under their flowing robes. And
before these, clearing the way, there were eunuch slaves crying: "Darak ya Khowaga-riglak!
shemalak!" which probably may mean: "Stand back, and let her ladyship pass!" There were walkers
and water-carriers, with goat-skins full on their back; and fruit-sellers and orange-girls;
and ourselves and others driving at full gallop, regardless of all the Copts, Abyssinians,
Greeks, Turks, Parsees, Nubians, and Jews, which crowded the path. But curiosity of this sort
is soon satisfied, and these novelties are passed, when I find myself in the midst of the city,
more full of mud and misery, dark, dirty twisting lanes, arched almost over by verandas, and
wretchedly paved or not paved at all, full of smells and disgusting sights--such as lean, mangy
dogs, and ragged beggars quivering with lice, and poverty-stricken people; all this more than
the whole world can produce anywhere else, not excepting even the Jewish city of Prague; which
astonished me beyond comparison till I saw the poorer portions of Cairo.'

During his stay in Cairo, the doctor visited the Great Pyramid of Gizeh, the short journey
being performed early in the morning, and with a guide. The toils and pleasures of the excursion
are fairly described. 'I had read so much of the bulk of the Pyramids, and they now appeared
so positively insignificant in their dimensions, that I, felt mortified; but I remembered that
I had the same impression many years ago when first approaching the Alps; and I began to consider,
that as the extreme clearness of the atmosphere gave them the appearance of proximity in the
far distance, so it would also partly account for the diminutive aspect they persisted in presenting.
I dismounted, and scrambled up the bold ledge of rock, and found myself already a hundred feet
above the level of the Nile. Here my Arab guide produced cold fowl, bread, wine, and Nile water
in plenty at the foot of this mountain of stone, which now began to indicate its colossal magnitude.
Standing beside the pyramid, and looking from the base to the top, and especially examining
the vast dimensions of each separate stone, I thus obtained an adequate impression of the magnitude
of its dimensions, which produced a calm and speechless but elevated feeling of awe. The Arabs,
men, women, and children, came crowding around me; but they seemed kind and inoffensive. I
was advised to mount up to the top before the sun gained strength; and, skipping like chamois
on a mountain, two Arabs took hold of me by each wrist, and a third lifted me up from behind,
and thus I began, with resolution and courage, to ascend the countless layers of huge stones
which tower and taper to the top. Every step was three feet up at a bound; and, really, a perpendicular
hop-step-and-leap of this sort was no joke, move after move continuing as if for ever. I found
that the Arabs did not work so smoothly as I expected, and that one seemed at a time to be
holding back, while another was dragging me up; and this soon became very tiresome. Perceiving
this, they changed their method, and I was directed to put my foot on the knee of one Arab,
and another pulled me up by both hands, while a third pushed me behind; and thus I bounded
on in my tread-mill of tedious and very tiresome exertion. I paused half-way to the top, and
rested at the cave. I looked up and down with a feeling of awe, and now I felt the force of
Warburton's remark, when he calls it the greatest wonder in the world. But in the midst of
these common-place reflections, a fit of sickness came over me. Everything turned dark before
me; and now for a moment my courage failed me; and when looking at my three savage companions--for
my guide and his friend were sitting below finishing the fragments of my breakfast, and the
donkeys were munching beans--I felt myself alike destitute of comfort and protection; and when
they put forth their hands to lift my body, I verily thought myself a murdered man. When I
came out of my faint, I found that they had gently turned me on my belly, with my head flat
upon the rock, and that they had been sprinkling my face and breast with water. A profuse perspiration
broke out, and I felt myself relieved. I rested ten or fifteen minutes, and hesitated for a
moment whether to go up or down; but I had determined that I should reach the top, if I should
perish in the attempt. I resumed, therefore, the ascent, but with more time and caution than
before; and fearing to look either up or down, or to any portion of the frightful aspect around,
I fixed my eye entirely on each individual step before me, as if there had been no other object
in the world besides. To encourage me by diverting my attention, the Arabs chanted their monotonous
songs, mainly in their own language, interspersed with expressions about buckshish, "Englese
good to Arabs," and making signs to me every now and then how near we were getting to the top.
After a second dwam, a rest and a draught of water prepared me for another effort at ascending;
and now, as I advanced, my ideas began to expand to something commensurate with the grandeur
and novelty of the scene. When I reached the top, I found myself on a broad area of about ten
yards in every way of massive stone-blocks broken and displaced. Exhausted and overheated,
I laid me down, panting like a greyhound after a severe chase. I bathed my temples, and drank
a deep, cool draught of Nile water. After inhaling for a few minutes the fresh, elastic breeze
blowing up the river, I felt that I was myself again. I rose, and gazed with avidity in fixed
silence, north and south, east and west. And now I felt it very exhilarating to the spirit,
when thus standing on a small, unprotected pavement so many hundred feet above the earth, and
so many thousand miles from home, to be alone, surrounded only by three wild and ferocious-like
savages. The Arabs knew as well as I did that my life and property were in their power; but
they were kind, and proud of the confidence I had in them. They tapped me gently on the back,
patted my head, kissed my hand, and then with a low, laughing, sinister growl, they asked me
for buckshish, which I firmly refused; then they laughed, and sang and chatted as before. In
calmly looking around me, one idea filled and fixed my mind, which I expressed at the time
in one word--magnificence!... I remained long at the top of the pyramid, and naturally felt
elevated by the sublimity of the scenery around, and also by the thought, that I had conquered
every difficulty, and accomplished my every purpose. The breeze was still cool, although the
sun was now high in the sky. I laughed and talked with the Arabs; and advanced with them holding
my two hands, to the very edge, and looked down the awful precipice. Here again, with a push,
or a kick, or probably by withdrawing their hands, my days would have been finished; and I
would have been buried in the Desert among the ancient kings, or more likely worried up by
hungry hyænas. I looked around at my leisure, and began carefully to read the names cut out
on the stones, anxious to catch one from my own country, or of my acquaintance, but in this
I did not succeed. Seeing me thus occupied, one of the Arabs drew from his pocket a large murderous-looking
gully, and when he advanced towards me with it in his hand, had I believed the tenth part of
what I had heard or read, I might have been afraid of my life. But with a laughing squeal,
he pointed to a stone, as if to intimate that I should cut out my name upon it. Then very modestly
he held out his hand for buckshish, and I thought him entitled to two or three piasters....
In coming down, I felt timid and giddy for awhile, and was afraid that I might meet the fate
of the poor officer from India, who, on a similar occasion, happened to miss his foot, and
went bouncing from one ledge of stone to another, towards the bottom, like a ball, and that
long after life was beaten out of him. Seeing this, the Arabs renewed their demand for buckshish,
and with more perseverance than ever; but I was equally firm in my determination that more
money they should not have till I reached the bottom. At last they took me by both hands as
before, and conducted me carefully from step to step. By and by I jumped down from one ledge
to another without their assistance, till I reached the mouth of the entrance to the interior.
I descended this inlet somewhat after the manner of a sweep going down a chimney, but not quite
so comfortable, I believe. In this narrow inclined plane, I not only had to encounter sand-flies,
and every variety of vermin in Egypt, but I was afraid of serpents. The confined pass was filled,
too, with warm dust, and the heat and smoke of the lights we carried increased the stifling
sensation. In these circumstances, I felt anxious only to go as far as would enable me to fire
a pistol with effect in one of the vaults. This is well worth while, inasmuch as the sound
of the explosion was louder than the roar of a cannon. In fact, it almost rent the drum of
my ears, and rolled on like thunder through the interior of the pyramid, multiplied and magnified
as it was by a thousand echoes. The sound seemed to sink, and mount from cavity to cavity--to
rebound and to divide--and at length to die in a good old age. The flash and the smoke produced,
too, a momentary feeling of terror. Having performed this marvellous feat, I was nowise ambitious
to qualify myself further for giving a description of the interior.'

After visiting Suez, the author returned to Cairo, descended to the coast of the Levant, and
took shipping for Jaffa, on the route to Jerusalem. Every point of interest in the holy city
is described as minutely as could be desired. Next, there was a visit to the Dead Sea, regarding
which there occur some sagacious remarks. The doctor repudiates the ordinary belief, that the
waters of this famed lake are carried off by exhalation. Six million tons of water are discharged
every day by the Jordan into the Dead Sea; and to suppose that this vast increase is wholly
exhaled, seems to him absurd. He deems it more likely that the lake issues by subterranean
passages into the Red Sea. The only remark that occurs to us on this point is, that the saltness
of the lake must be held as a proof that there is at least a large exhalation from the surface.

Dr Aiton also visited Bethlehem, where he saw much to interest him; and had the satisfaction
of being hospitably entertained by the fathers of the Greek convent. The plain is still mainly
under pasture, fertile and well watered, and there I saw shepherds still tending their flocks.
These shepherds have great influence over their sheep. Many of them have no dogs. Their flocks
are docile and domestic, and not as the black-faced breed of sheep in Scotland, scouring the
hills like cavalry. The shepherd's word spoken at any time is sufficient to make them understand
and obey him. He sleeps among them at night, and in the morning he leadeth them forth to drink
by the still waters, and feedeth them by the green pastures. He walks before them slow and
stately; and so accustomed are the sheep to be guided by him, that every few bites they take
they look up with earnestness to see that he is there. When he rests during the heat of the
day in a shady place, they lie around him chewing the cud. He has generally two or three favourite
lambs which don't mix with the flock, but frisk and fondle at his heel. There is a tender intimacy
between the Ishmaelite and his flock. They know his voice, and follow him, and he careth for
the sheep. He gathereth his lambs, and seeketh out his flock among the sheep, and gently leadeth
them that are with young, and carrieth the lambs in his bosom. In returning back to Jerusalem,
I halted on a rugged height to survey more particularly, and enjoy the scene where Ruth went
to glean the ears of corn in the field of her kinsman Boaz. Hither she came for the beginning
of barley harvest, because she would not leave Naomi in her sorrow. How simple and tender!
Here, when looking around me, honoured I felt for ever be her memory, not only for these touching
sentiments, worthy of our race even before the fall, and when the image of God was not yet
effaced; but also in respect that she who uttered these words was the great-grandmother of
David, and as of the generation of Jesus. Here also I looked back to the city of Bethlehem
with lingering regret, uttering a common-place farewell to the scene, but never to its hallowed
recollections.'

We may conclude our extracts with a passage descriptive of the doctor's departure from the
Holy Land, from which it will be seen that he was not indisposed to keep his part when necessity
demanded. 'The steamer Levant was ordered to sail at midnight on the day it arrived at Jaffa,
and there was a vast crowd and great confusion at the embarkation. All the villainy of the
Arab watermen was in active operation. With the assistance of Dr Kiat's Italian servant, an
arrangement had been made that I and my friend were to be taken out to the steamer for a stipulated
sum; but while all the boats of the natives were going off; ours was still detained at the
pier under a variety of flimsy pretences. Then a proposal was made to carry the luggage back
to the shore, and to take away the boat somewhere else, a promise being given by the Arabs
that they would return with it in plenty of time to take us on board before midnight. By this
time, I was too old a traveller amid ruffians of this sort to permit so simple a fraud to be
perpetrated. The crew insisted on taking hold of the oars, and my friend and I persisted in
preventing them. We soon saw that nothing but determined courage would carry the day. I therefore
did not hesitate to grasp the skipper firmly by the throat till I almost choked him, threatening
to toss him headlong into the sea. We also threatened loudly to go back to the English consul,
and to have them punished for their conduct. Awed a little, and seeing that we were not to
be so easily done as they expected, notwithstanding that we had been so simple as to pay our
fare before we started, they did at last push off the boat; but it was only after a fashion
of their own. Every forty yards their oars struck work, and they demanded more money. The sea
was rough even beyond the breakers, and the gravestone which I had seen in the garden at Jaffa
was enough to convince me, that the guiding of a boat by savages in the dark, through the neck
of such a harbour, with whirling currents and terrifying waves, was a matter of considerable
danger. There was no remedy for it, but continuing to set the crew at defiance, knowing that
they could not upset the boat without endangering their own lives as well as ours. They wetted
us, however, purposely, with the spray, and did their best to frighten us, by rocking the boat
like a cradle. First one piaster (about twopence-halfpenny) was given to the skipper, then
the boat was advanced about a hundred yards, when the oars were laid down once more. Another
row was the consequence, at the end of which another piaster was doled out to him, and forward
we moved till we were fairly within cry of the ship, when I called out for assistance, and
they pushed us directly alongside, behind the paddle-box. Here again they detained the luggage,
and demanded more buckshish; but I laid hold of the rope hanging down from the rails of the
steamer, and crying to my companion to sit still and watch our property, I ran up the side
of the ship and called for the master, knowing that the captain was on shore. Looking down
upon them, he threatened to sink them in the ocean if they did not bring everything on deck
in a minute. When I saw the portmanteaus brought up, and my friend and I safely on board, I
thought that all was well enough, although we had got a ducking in the surf; but in a little,
my friend found that he had been robbed of his purse, containing two sovereigns and some small
money; but nobody could tell whether this had been done in the crowd on the pier, or when he
was in the boat, or when helped up the side of the ship. The anchor was weighed about midnight,
and we steamed along the coast of Samaria, towards the once famous city and seaport of Herod.'

Having taken the liberty to be jocular on the doctor's oddities of expression, we beg to say,
that notwithstanding these and other eccentricities, the work he has produced is well worthy
of perusal, and of finding a place in all respectable libraries.

FOOTNOTES:

[8] The Lands of the Messiah, Mahomet, and the Pope, as Visited in 1851. By John Aiton, D.D.,
Minister of Dolphinton. Fullarton & Co. 1852.

GLEANING IN SCOTLAND.

BY A PRACTITIONER.

Like most other ubiquitous customs, corn-gleaning has been frequently described by the painter
and the poet, yet I much question whether in any case the picture is true to nature. A certain
amount of idealism is infused into all the sketches--indeed, in the experience of numbers of
readers, this is the sole feature in most of them. Such a defect is easily accounted for. Those
who have depicted the custom were practically unacquainted with its details, and invariably
made the sacred story the model of their picture, without taking into consideration the changes
induced by time or local peculiarity. Even the beautiful and glowing description of English
corn-gleaning given by Thomson, is felt by practical observers to be greatly too much of the
Oriental hue, too redolent of the fragrance of a fanciful Arcadia. It is a pity that this interesting
custom is not more faithfully transcribed into our national poetry; and it is with the hope
that a future Burns may make the attempt, that the writer of this article ventures to give
a short history of his gleaning-days, believing the subject to be interesting enough to engage
the attention of the general reader.

Though born amid the grandeur and sublimity of Highland scenery, I was, at a very early age,
brought to reside in a small village on the east coast--small now, but once the most famous
and important town in that part of Scotland. Among the scenes of these times, none stand out
more vividly than the 'gathering-days'--the harvest of the year's enjoyment--the time when
a whole twelvemonth's happiness was concentrated in the six weeks' vacation of the village-school.
I do not recollect the time when I began to glean--or gather, as it is locally termed--probably
I would, when very young, follow the others to the near farms, and gradually become, as I grew
older, a regular gleaner. At that time the gleaners in our district were divided into two gangs
or parties. One of these was headed by four old women, whose shearing-days were past; and as
they were very peaceable, decent bodies, it was considered an honour to get attached to their
band. The other was composed of the wilder spirits of the place, who thought nothing of jumping
dikes, breaking hedges, stealing turnips, and committing other depredations on the farms which
they visited. Fortunately, my quiet disposition, and supposed good character, procured my admittance
into the more respectable gang; and I had the honour of sharing its fortunes during the five
or six years I continued a gleaner. I was surprised to see one of these old ladies toddling
about the village only a few weeks ago, though her gathering-days are long since past. She
is the last survivor of the quorum, and is now fast fading into dotage.

Although the two gleaning-parties never assumed a positive antagonism, they took care to conceal
their movements from each other as well as possible. When one of our party received information
of a field being 'ready,' the fact was secretly conveyed to all the members, with an injunction
to be 'in such a place at such an hour' on the following morning; and the result generally
was, that we had a considerable portion of the field gleaned before the other gang arrived.
But we did not always act on previous information. Many a morning we departed on the search,
and frequently wandered all day without 'lifting a head.' These were the best times for us
young ones, whose hearts were too light to care for more than the fun of the thing, as we then
had a glorious opportunity of getting a feast of bramble-berries and wild raspberries in the
woods and moors; but to the older members of our party the disappointment was anything but
pleasant.

I have spoken of a field being ready. Now, to some readers, this may convey a very erroneous
idea. We learn that in early times not only were the gleaners admitted among the sheaves, or
allowed to 'follow the shearers,' as the privilege is now termed, but, in a certain instance,
the reapers were commanded to leave a handful now and then for the gleaner. Now, that custom
is entirely changed: the sheaves are all taken away from the field; and instead of the reapers
leaving handfuls expressly for the gleaners, the farmer endeavours by raking to secure as much
as possible of what they accidentally leave on the stubble. I am not inclined to quarrel with
the condition that requires the stocks to be removed ere the gleaners gain admittance; because
many would be tempted to pilfer, and besides, the ground on which they stand could not be reached.
But there is no doubt that the custom of gleaning was originally a public enactment; while
the fact that it has spread over the whole earth, and descended to the present time, shews
that it still exists on the statute-book of justice, in all the length and breadth of its original
signification; and it amounts almost to a virtual abrogation of the privilege when the stubble
is thus gleaned. At all events, if these sentiments are not in consonance with the new lights
of the day, let them be pardoned in a ci-devant gleaner.

Upon arriving at a field, our first object was to choose a locality. If we were first on the
ground, we took a careful survey of its geographical position, and acted accordingly. When
the field was level, and equally exposed, it mattered little to what part we went; but in the
event of its being hilly, or situated near a wood, we had to consider where the best soil lay,
and where the sun had shone most. It was in the discovery of these important points that the
sagacity and experience of our aged leaders were most brilliantly displayed, and gave to our
party an immense superiority over the other, whose science was much more scanty; it therefore
happened that we had generally the largest quantity and best quality of grain. These preliminaries
being settled--and they generally took less time than I have done to write--we began work,
commencing, of course, at the end of the field by which we entered, and travelling up or down
the rigs.

The process of gleaning may be generally considered a very simple one; but in this, as in everything
else, some knowledge is necessary, and no better proof of this could be had, than in the quantities
gathered by different persons in the same space of time. A careless or inexperienced gatherer
could easily be detected by the size and shape of his single. The usual method practised by
a good gleaner was as follows:--Placing the left hand upon the knee, or behind the back, the
right was used to lift the ears, care being taken to grasp them close by the 'neck.' When the
right hand had gathered perhaps twenty or thirty ears, these were changed into the left hand;
the right was again replenished from the ground; and this process was continued till the left
was full, or rather till the gleaner heard one of his or her party exclaim: 'Tie!' when the
single was obliged to be completed. Thus it is clear that a good eye and a quick hand are essential
to a good gleaner.

Whenever one of the members of the party found that the left hand was quite full, he or she
could compel the others to finish their singles whether their hand was full or not, by simply
crying the afore-mentioned word 'Tie!' At this sound, the whole band proceeded to fasten their
bundles, and deposit them on the rig chosen for their reception. The process of 'tying' it
is impossible to explain on paper; but I can assure my readers it afforded great scope for
taste and ingenuity. Few, indeed, could do it properly, though the singles of some were very
neat. The best 'tyer' in our party, and indeed in the district, was a little, middle-aged woman,
who was a diligent, rapid gatherer, and generally the first to finish her handful. Her singles
were perfectly round, and as flat at the top as if laid with a plummet. Having finished tying,
we laid down our singles according to order, so that no difficulty might be felt in collecting
them again, and so proceeded with our labour.

When we got to the end of the field, the custom was, to finish our handfuls there, and retrace
our steps for the purpose of collecting the deposits, when each of us tied up our collected
bundles at the place from which we originally started. To the lover of the picturesque, the
scene while we sat resting by the hedge-side, was one of the most beautiful that can be imagined.
Spread over the field in every direction were the gleaners, busily engaged in their cheerful
task; while the hum of their conversation, mingling with the melody of the insect world, the
music of the feathery tribes, and the ripple of the adjoining burn, combined to form a strain
which I still hear in the pauses of life.

On our homeward road from a successful day's, gathering, how merry we all were, in spite of
our tired limbs and the load upon our heads! Indeed it was the load itself that made us glad;
and we should have been still merrier if that had been heavier. How sweet it was to feel the
weight of our industry--no burden could possibly be more grateful; and I question much whether
that was not the happiest moment in Ruth's first gleaning-day, when she trudged home to her
mother-in-law with the ephah of barley, the produce of her unflagging toil.

When harvest was over, and the chill winds swept over cleared and gleaned fields, our bond
of union was dissolved, each retired to his respective habitation, and, like Ruth, 'beat out
that he had gleaned.' In many cases, the result was a sufficient supply of bread to the family
for the ensuing winter. It was singular that, during the rest of the year, little or no intercourse
was maintained between those who were thus associated during harvest. They lived together in
the same degree of friendship as is common among villagers, but I could never observe any of
that peculiar intimacy which it was natural to suppose such an annual combination would create.
They generally returned to their ordinary occupations, and continued thus till the sickle was
again heard among the yellow corn, and the stacks were growing in the barn-yard. Then, as if
by instinct, the members of the various bands, and the independent stragglers, left their monotonous
tasks, and eagerly entered on the joys and pleasures of the gathering-days.

I might add many reminiscences of the few seasons I spent in this manner; but I am afraid that,
however interesting they might prove in rural districts, they are too simple to interest the
general reader. Let me observe, however, before concluding, that the great majority of the
farmers at the present day are decidedly unfavourable to gleaning, although the veneration
that is generally entertained for what is ancient, and the traditionary sacredness which surrounds
this particular custom, prevent them from openly forbidding its continuance. They have introduced,
however, laws and rules which infringe sadly its original proportions, and which, in many instances,
are made the instruments of oppression.

WOMEN IN SAVAGE LIFE.

The division of labour between the man and wife in Indian life is not so unequal, while they
live in the pure hunter state, as many suppose. The large part of a hunter's time, which is
spent in seeking game, leaves the wife in the wigwam, with a great deal of time on her hands;
for it must be remembered that there is no spinning, weaving, or preparing children for school--no
butter or cheese making, or a thousand other cares which are inseparable from the agricultural
state, to occupy her skill and industry. Even the art of the seamstress is only practised by
the Indian woman on a few things. She devotes much of her time to making moccasons and quill-work.
Her husband's leggins are carefully ornamented with beads; his shot-pouch and knife-sheath
are worked with quills; the hunting-cap is garnished with ribbons; his garters of cloth are
adorned with a profusion of small white beads, and coloured worsted tassels are prepared for
his leggins. In the spring, the corn-field is planted by her and the youngsters, in a vein
of gaiety and frolic. It is done in a few hours, and taken care of in the same spirit. It is
perfectly voluntary labour, and she would not be scolded for omitting it; for all labour with
Indians is voluntary.--Schoolcraft's Indian Tribes.

LANGUAGE OF THE LAW.

If a man would, according to law, give to another an orange, instead of saying, 'I give you
that orange,' which one would think would be what is called in legal phraseology 'an absolute
conveyance of all right and title therein,' the phrase would run thus:--'I give you all and
singular my estate and interest, right, title, and claim, and advantage of and in that orange,
with all its rind, skin, juice, pulp, and pips, and right and advantages therein, with full
power to bite, cut, suck, and otherwise eat the same, or give the same away, as fully and as
effectually as I, the said A. B., am now inclined to bite, cut, suck, or otherwise eat the
same orange or give the same away, with or without its rind, skin, juice, pulp, or pips, anything
heretofore or hereinafter, or in any other deed or deeds, instrument or instruments, of what
nature or kind soever, to the contrary in anywise notwithstanding;' with much more to the same
effect. Such is the language of lawyers; and it is gravely held by the most learned men among
them, that by the omission of any of these words, the right to the said orange would not pass
to the person for whose use the same was intended.--Newspaper paragraph.

CHANCES OF LIFE IN AMERICA.

10,268 infants are born on the same day and enter upon life simultaneously. Of these, 1243
never reach the anniversary of their birth; 9025 commence the second year; but the proportion
of deaths still continues so great, that at the end of the third only 8183, or about four-fifths
of the original number, survive. But during the fourth year the system seems to acquire more
strength, and the number of deaths rapidly decreases. It goes on decreasing until twenty-one,
the commencement of maturity and the period of highest health. 7134 enter upon the activities
and responsibilities of life--more than two-thirds of the original number. Thirty-five comes,
the meridian of manhood, 6302 have reached it. Twenty years more, and the ranks are thinned.
Only 4727, or less than half of those who entered life fifty-five years ago, are left. And
now death comes more frequently. Every year the ratio of mortality steadily increases, and
at seventy there are not 1000 survivors. A scattered few live on to the close of the century,
and at the age of one hundred and six the drama is ended; the last man is dead.--Albany Journal.

A SONG.

    The little white moon goes climbing
      Over the dusky cloud,
    Kissing its fringes softly,
      With a love-light, pale as shroud--
    Where walks this moon to-night, Annie?
    Over the waters bright, Annie?
      Does she smile on your face as you lift it, proud?
    God look on thee--look on thee, Annie!
      For I shall look never more!

    The little white star stands watching
      Ever beside the moon;
    Hid in the mists that shroud her,
      And hid in her light's mid-noon:
    Yet the star follows all heaven through, Annie,
    As my soul follows after you, Annie,
      At moon-rise and moon-set, late and soon:
    Oh, God watch thee, God watch thee, Annie,
      For I can watch never more!

    The purple-black sky folds loving,
      Over far sea, far land;
    The thunder-clouds, looming eastward,
      Like a chain of mountains stand.
    Under this July sky, Annie,
    Do you hear waves lapping by, Annie?
      Do you walk, with the hills on either hand?
    Oh, God love thee, God love thee, Annie,
      For I love thee evermore!

LONGEVITY OF QUAKERS.

Quakerism is favourable to longevity, it seems. According to late English census returns, the
average age attained by members of this peaceful sect in Great Britain is fifty-one years,
two months, and twenty-one days. Half of the population of the country, as is seen by the same
returns, die before reaching the age of twenty-one, and the average duration of human life
the world over is but thirty-three years; Quakers, therefore, live a third longer than the
rest of us. The reasons are obvious enough. Quakers are temperate and prudent, are seldom in
a hurry, and never in a passion. Quakers, in the very midst of the week's business--on Wednesday
morning--retire from the world, and spend an hour or two in silent meditation at the meeting-house.
Quakers are diligent; they help one another, and the fear of want does not corrode their minds.
The journey of life to them is a walk of peaceful meditation. They neither suffer nor enjoy
intensity, but preserve a composed demeanour always. Is it surprising that their days should
be long in the land?--National Intelligencer.

