Another young church-goer, the daughter of a well-known Baptist clergyman in Brooklyn, who
was a critic in her way, and who had a faint suspicion that anecdotes generally were "made
up" for the occasion, went one day with her father to hear his Thanksgiving sermon. He told
a melting story about his poor blind brother who, notwithstanding his infirmity, was always
cheerful and happy. The audience was deeply impressed, and many, including the speaker himself,
were moved to tears. On her return home, Mary, we will call her, said, with deep earnestness,
"Papa, when you were telling that about Uncle Nat this morning, did you say the real truth,
or were you only preaching?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A four-year-old Sunday-school girl did the best she could with a question that was asked of
the infant class. Said the teacher, reading from Isaiah, xxxvii. 1: "'And it came to pass,
when King Hezekiah heard it that he rent his clothes.' Now what does that mean, children--he
rent his clothes?" Up went a little hand. "Well, if you know, tell us."

"Please, ma'am," said the child, timidly, "I s'pose he hired 'em out." (This is an actual fact,
and the name of the town where it occurred begins with "M.")

       *       *       *       *       *

A pretty anecdote is told of a little girl to whom the unseen world is very real. "Where does
God live, mamma?" she asked, one evening, after saying her prayers.

"He lives in heaven, my dear, in the Celestial City whose streets are paved with gold."

"Oh yes, I know that, mamma," she said, with great solemnity; "but what's His number?"

Doubtless she expected to go there one day, and wanted to make sure of finding the way.

       *       *       *       *       *

"How does the Lord make cats?" asked an inquisitive little fellow, who was always trying to
find out the whys and wherefores of things. "Does He make the cats first, and sew the tails
on, or does He make the tails first, and sew the cats on?" Every clergyman who comes to the
house is asked the same question, but no satisfactory reply has yet been given. He threatens
now that unless he finds out very soon, he will take his favorite Topsy all to pieces, and
see for himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

A little girl in Oil City is just recovering from a severe attack of scarlet fever. During
her illness she has been greatly petted by her indulgent parents, who bought her any number
of toys and nice things. A few days ago, as she was sitting up, she said, "Mamma, I believe
I'll ask papa to buy me a baby carriage for my doll." The brother--a precocious youngster of
only six years of age, spoke up at once, and said, "I would advise you to strike him for it
right away, then; you won't get it when you get well."

       *       *       *       *       *

A little girl went timidly into a store at Bellaire, Ohio, the other morning, and asked the
clerk how many shoe-strings she could get for five cents.

"How long do you want them?" he asked.

"I want them to keep," was the answer, in a tone of slight surprise.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was just after Christmas, and Kenneth's mind was full of the story of the Babe who was born
at Bethlehem. When, therefore, he was taken into mamma's room to see his new little brother,
he looked with wonder on the dainty cradle, trimmed with lace and ribbons, wherein the little
baby lay, and asked, in an awed whisper, "Mamma, is that a manger?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A neighbor asked a little girl the other day if her father wasn't one of the pillars of the
Miamus M. E. Church. "No, indeed," she warmly replied; "they don't have any pillows there."

I SHOULD LIKE TO KNOW.

  When in budding trees
    Bluebirds sweetly sing,
  And the pretty early flowers
    Come to welcome spring,
  "No more cold," we think,
    "No more sleety rain";
  But sometimes old Winter turns,
    Mocking, back again.

  Then the bluebirds hide,
    And the buds stand still,
  And the flowers droop and shrink
    With a sudden chill,
  And the young vines stop
    Growing in the wood,
  Waiting patiently until
    He is gone for good.

  But when, some fine night,
    In a friendly throng,
  From the swampy places where
    They have slept so long
  Hop the frogs, and all
    Loudly croak together,
  Then there will be, we are sure,
    No more wintry weather;

  And the birds rejoice,
    And the buds unfold,
  And the sun upon the grass
    Lies in bars of gold.
  Now I'd like to know,
    For it's surely so,
  How when spring is really here
    Frog-folks chance to know.

THE CHAMOIS AND THEIR FOES.

The only European species of the antelope family are the chamois (Antelope rupicapra), which
inhabit the highest regions of the Alps, the Pyrenees, and the Caucasus. On inaccessible cliffs
and rocky crags these graceful mountaineers make their home, and except when disturbed by the
approach of man, lead a peaceful and harmless life. The chamois resembles the wild goat of
the Alps, but is more elastic and spry. It is especially distinguished from it by the absence
of beard, and by its black glistening horns, which are curved like a hook and pointed.

In the spring the chamois is very light-colored, but as summer advances, its coat assumes a
reddish-brown hue, which by December often becomes coal black. Its eyes are large, black, and
full of intelligence, and its delicate hoofs are surrounded by a projecting rim which renders
it firm-footed and able to march with ease over the great glaciers or along narrow ledges of rock.

These pretty animals live in herds, five, ten, and sometimes twenty together. They are merry,
wise creatures, graceful and agile in their movements, and spring from cliff to cliff and across
chasms with extraordinary lightness and sureness of foot.

In the winter the chamois seek the upper forests on the mountain slopes, where, under the shelter
of the widely branching umbrella fir, the drooping boughs of which hang almost to the ground,
they find snug quarters, and long dry grass for winter provender.

The opening of spring in the Swiss Alps is attended by many wonderful phenomena. It would seem
that no power was strong enough to break the icy chain in which the high Alps are bound fast;
but there comes a day, generally early in April, when beautifully tinted veils of cloud form
over the southern horizon, and a death-like stillness prevails in the mountains. The eye of
the experienced hunter detects this sign in a moment, and knows it to be the token of approaching
danger. If among the glaciers, he hastens to the valley below, where he finds the villages
in commotion. Sheep and cattle are being hurriedly housed, and everything being secured against
the dreaded Föhn, which is surely coming from beyond those rose-tinted clouds in the south.
The Föhn is a warm wind which, in the spring, comes blowing northward from the hot African
desert. On a sudden the stillness is broken by a terrible rushing sound, and a burning breath
like fire strikes on the snowy pinnacles and glaciers. All nature is soon in an uproar. Mighty
banks of snow, loosened from their winter resting-place, roar and rumble down the mountain-side
in avalanches, bearing huge rocks and giant trees in their arms. The whole winter architecture
of the mountains crumbles to ruins before the burning desert wind.

When the storm is over the great ice beds and banks of snow cease their pranks, and peace reigns
once more in the mountains. But the strength of winter is broken. The Föhn returns again and
again, and soon patches of bluish-green begin to appear here and there among the high precipitous
crags. When the highest mountain pastures are open, the chamois leave their forest retreat,
and troop upward into the most lofty regions. Here they lead a happy life. They are most frolicsome
in the autumn, and may be seen for hours together gambolling and chasing each other upon the
very smallest ledges of rock, where it would seem almost impossible to maintain a foothold.
There are sometimes bitter fights, too, between the male chamois, terrible contests for leadership.
Grappling each other with their horns, they battle until the superiority of strength is decided.

The chamois is very shy, and is always on the alert. Its sense of hearing, of smell, and of
sight is very acute, and the most skillful hunter will sometimes search the mountain pastures
for days without securing his game. When the troop is grazing, a sentinel is always appointed,
who stands on the watch sniffing the air. At the least approach of danger the careful sentinel
gives a shrill whistling signal of warning, and instantly the troop is filing off between the
rocks and along the chasms, where no human foot could follow, all whistling together as they
march. The only chance of the hunter to escape detection by these watchful creatures is to
approach them from above, for, as if conscious that there are few so daring as to penetrate
the upper regions of eternal snow, the sharp eye of the sentinel is on the look-out for danger
from below.

As the greatest skill and courage are required to secure this valuable game, a good chamois-hunter
is a person of importance in the wild Swiss valley where he lives, and the family of which
he is a member glory in his deeds, and relate them to awe-struck listeners around the evening
fireside. Chamois-hunting is the central point around which cluster all the charms of romance
and dangerous adventure; it is the subject of many popular ballads, and its hold upon the imagination
of the people is wonderful. Chamois skulls adorned with the black hooked horns may be seen
among the most precious treasures of many a Swiss household, each one suggestive of some tale
of wonderful bravery and endurance.

The chamois-hunters of Switzerland lead a strange life. None knows when he departs from his
home in the morning with his gun, ammunition, and alpen-stock, if he will ever return from
the mysterious misty heights towering before him far aloft in the clouds. The pursuit of the
chamois will often lead him to the narrowest boundaries between life and death, to overhanging
cliffs, and across gorges where even the falling of a bit of turf or the loosening of a stone
would be fatal. Up, up, the hunter must go in search of the cunning game, until lost among
the cliffs, and blinded by the thick mists which appear as clouds to those in the valley below,
he may often wander in the trackless solitudes for days, with the terrible roar of avalanches
sounding in his ears, before being able to return to his home. And yet in face of all these
dangers, the Swiss, apart from the price they obtain for the flesh, skin, and horns of the
chamois, have an inborn love of this sport, and stories are told of many celebrated hunters,
men to whom every rock, tree, and path on the high mountains was as familiar as the streets
of their native village, and who feared neither fogs, snowstorms, nor avalanches. But few of
these hunters, however, have died at home in their beds, for in the end accident overtook them,
and their lofty hunting ground became their grave.

INDIANS AND RED WILLOW.

To the Indians of the great Western plains the red willow, which is only found in that country,
proves so very useful that its loss would be greatly felt by them. It is a bushy growth, never
reaching more than fifteen or twenty feet in height, and is found along the river-banks, where
it grows rapidly and in great abundance.

The Indian most values the red willow because from its bark he makes what to him is a very
good substitute for tobacco. To do this he strips one of the long, slender shoots of its leaves,
and with his knife cuts the bark until it hangs from the wood in little shreds. Then he thrusts
the stick into the fire, but not so that it will burn, only so that the bark will become thoroughly
dried. When this is done, he carefully rubs it between his hands until it is crumbled almost
to a powder.

This willow-bark powder he mixes with a small quantity of real tobacco, if he has any; if not,
he mixes it with the dried and crumbled leaf of a small and very bitter shrub that grows on
the mountain-sides, and has a leaf looking somewhat like our box-wood. The Indians call it
killicanick, and often mix it with tobacco when they have no red willow. So fond are the Indians
of their red-willow tobacco that they prefer it to the real unmixed article, which seems to
be too strong for them.

The squaws use the red willow to make temporary shelters or wick-i-ups, which are used instead
of the heavy skin lodges, or tepees, when the Indians are on the move, and only camp in one
place for a night or so.

When a pleasant spot by some running stream, where there is plenty of red willow, has been
fixed upon for a camping-place, and a fire has been lighted, the squaws cut a quantity of the
willow, and, making a rude framework of the larger branches, of which the butt-ends are fixed
firmly into the ground, and the small ends bound together to look like a small dome, they weave
the smaller branches and twigs in and out until the whole affair looks like a great leafy basket
turned upside down. The entrance is very low, and when once inside, a grown person can only
lie or sit down, for if he should stand up, he would probably lift the house with him.

While the squaws are building the wick-i-ups the Indian has been stretched on the ground, smoking
his long-stemmed pipe, with its stone or iron bowl, or else he has been kneeling beside the
fire preparing his much-loved red-willow tobacco. Over the same fire is hung a jack rabbit,
skinned, and spitted upon a slender red-willow stick, and from a tree near by the baby swings
in his red-willow cradle.

From the same red willow the squaws make baskets and mats. On its tender twigs the ponies browse
in winter, when the grass is covered deep with snow. And to these same red-willow thickets
the Indians go in winter in search of deer or antelope, which are pretty sure to be found browsing
among them.

So you see the Indian has good reason to be fond of the red willow, and he dreads the approach
of white farmers, who clear it off from the rich bottom-lands wherever they locate, for it
is on these lands that they can raise their heaviest crops of corn.

"THIS LITTLE PIG STAID AT HOME."

BY MARY DENSEL.

Six tow heads bobbing about a pen in the big barn. In the pen were thirteen small pigs, all
squealing as only small pigs know how to squeal.

The owners of two of the tow heads soon departed. They were Solomon and Isaac. Being fourteen
years old, they were too ancient to care much for pigs. Elias and John also went away. They
had business elsewhere in the shape of woodchuck traps. Philemon would fain have lingered near,
had he not made an engagement to play "two old cat" with Tom Tadgers.

As for Romeo Augustus, no charm of bat or ball would have drawn him from that pen, since he
had seen one of the small pigs stagger about in a strange fashion, and then sink down in a
corner. Something was wrong with that pig.

Romeo Augustus peered and peeped. At last into the pen he climbed, and caught the little pig
in his arms.

Then there was a hubbub indeed. Up rushed the mother in terrible excitement. Round and round
spun the twelve brothers and sisters, each crying, "No, no, no, no," in a voice as fine as
a knitting-needle, and as sharp as a razor edge.

But Romeo Augustus kept a steady head. Back over the pen he scrambled, pig and all, and sat
down on the barn floor to find out the trouble.

Ah! here was enough to make any pig stagger. Two little legs dangled helplessly--one fore-leg,
one hind-leg. The bones were broken.

At first Romeo Augustus was tempted to weep. What good would that do? It was far better to
coax the bones into place, put sticks up and down for splints, and bind one leg tight with
his neck-tie, the other with his very best pocket-handkerchief.

It was not an easy job. The pig did writhe and twist, while the frantic mother danced up and
down in the pen behind, and drove the surgeon nearly crazy with her noise. But he toiled bravely
on, and when at last the operation was done, the heart of Romeo Augustus was knit unto that
small pig in bonds of deep affection.

"I love him as if he was my--daughter," said Romeo Augustus, solemnly. He did not confide this
to his twin brother Philemon: Philemon would have jeered. He told it to Elias, who was poetical,
and had a soul for sentiment. Elias nodded, and said,

"Just so!" That showed sympathy. He also added, "Why don't you keep him for your own, and call
him Leggit or Bones?"

"No," answered Romeo Augustus, with dignity; "his name shall be Mephibosheth, for the man who
followed King David, and was lame in both his feet."

For five weeks Romeo Augustus nursed and fed and tended that pig. In time the legs grew strong.
Mephibosheth was as brisk as any pig need be. Romeo Augustus rejoiced over him, and loved him
more and more. So the days went on, until a certain morning dawned.

The sun rose as usual; the cocks crowed as cheerfully as they always did. Solomon and Isaac
had gone to drive the cows to pasture, as was their wont. Elias and John were peacefully skinning
their woodchucks in the shed. Philemon had been sent back to his chamber (as he was every morning
of his life) to brush his back hair. There was nothing to suggest the storm which was to break
over Romeo Augustus, who stood by the kitchen stove watching the cook fry fritters.

"Fizz, fiz-z-z, fiz-z-z," hissed the fritters.

"Aren't they going to be good!" said Romeo Augustus, smacking his lips.

Suddenly came a voice. It was Romeo Augustus's father speaking to the man-servant:

"Those little pigs are large enough to be killed. How many are there? Never mind. Carry them
all to market to-morrow, and sell them for what they will bring. I don't want the trouble of
raising them."

Romeo Augustus listened in horror. "Large enough to be killed?" "Carry them all to market?"
"All? ALL?" Why, that included Mephibosheth. Terrible thought!

Not a fritter did Romeo Augustus eat that morning. After breakfast he roamed aimlessly about
the farm. He would not go near the barn. How could he look upon poor doomed Mephibosheth?

Once he thought of going to his father, and pleading with him for his pig's life. But Romeo
Augustus was shy, and somewhat afraid of his father, who was a stern man. So he kept his grief
to himself, and meditated.

Elias unconsciously deserted him at this time of need, and curdled Romeo Augustus's blood by
asking twice for pork at dinner. Ask for pork? Why, speaking coarsely, Mephibosheth was also--pork.
How could any one eat pork with such a relish? Romeo Augustus shivered, and kept his own counsel.
All that afternoon he pondered. Then the darkness of night came on.

The next morning off started the man-servant with his load of little pigs.

"Have you all?" asked Romeo Augustus's father.

"I would ha' swore, sir, there was thirteen, but it seems there was only twilve. Yes, sir,
I has 'em all;" and away he drove.

As for Romeo Augustus, a change came over him. Far from shunning the barn, he hung about it
constantly. Moreover, he was always present when the cows were milked, morning and night. He
had a playful trick of dipping his own tin cup into the foaming pail, and scampering away with
it full to the brim. Nobody objected to that. If he chose to strain a point, and drink unstrained
milk, he was welcome to do it.

"And if you see fit to save half your dinner, and give it away, I am willing," said his mother,
who was busy, and hardly noticed what Romeo Augustus asked her. "But you must not soil your
jacket fronts as you do. This is the fifth time within a week I have sponged your clothes."

Soon after this, Philemon and Romeo Augustus were out in the barn, rolling over and over, burying
themselves in the sweet-smelling hay.

Suddenly Philemon pricked up his ears.

"What's that?" quoth he. "I heard a little pig squealing. Where can he be?"

"Philemon," said Romeo Augustus, earnestly, "let's climb to that top mow, and jump down. Hurrah!
It's a good twenty feet. Come on, if you dare!"

If he dare! Of course he dared. It was great fun to launch one's self into space, and come
whirling down on the hay. There was just enough danger of breaking one's neck to give spice
to the treat. How Romeo Augustus did scurry about, hustling Philemon whenever he stopped to
breathe, and urging him on, shouting at the top of his lungs,

"One more jump, old boy. Hurrah! Hurray!"

Philemon had no spare time in which to wonder if he heard a small pig squeal.

That very night, when all the family was wrapped in slumber, Elias felt a hand on his shoulder.
Another hand was on his mouth, to prevent any exclamation.

"Come with me," whispered Romeo Augustus; and he held out Elias's jacket and trousers. Elias
took the hint, also the clothes. Down the stairs crept the two. Out the front door, which would
creak, into the moon-lit yard stole they. Elias's eyes were snapping with excitement; for,
as I said, Elias was poetical, and, like all poets, he was always expecting something to turn
up. At this present he was on the look-out for what he called "the Gibbage."

Elias himself had grown to believe the marvellous stories he told his brothers. He had full
faith in the Lovely Lily Lady, who lived in the attic; in the Mealy family, with their sky-blue
faces and pea-green hands, in the cobwebby meal chest under the barn eaves; in the Peely family,
who inhabited the tool-box in the shed, and whose heads were like baked apples with the peel
taken off; in the big black bird, which came from the closet under the stairs at night, and
flew through the chambers to dust the boys' clothes with its wings.

And now Elias had suspected in his own mind that there existed a creature, somewhat like a
mouse, somewhat like a red flower-pot, which glided around during the night-watches to sharpen
slate-pencils, smooth out dog-ears from school-books, erase lead-pencil marks, polish up marbles,
straighten kite strings, put the "suck" into brick-suckers, and otherwise make itself useful.
If there were not such a creature, there ought to be, and Elias became daily surer that there
was. He called it "the Gibbage."

Perchance Romeo Augustus had caught a glimpse of it. No wonder Elias's eyes snapped as he was
hurried across the yard, and led back of the barn, where there was a space between the underpinning
and the ground. By lying flat one could wriggle his way under the barn, and when once beneath,
there was room to stand nearly up-right.

"Elias," said Romeo Augustus, breathlessly, "I keep Mephibosheth under here."

"Sakes and daisies!" gasped Elias.

That was a very strong expression. When somewhat moved, Elias often exclaimed, "Sakes!" but
when he added, "and daisies!" it was a sign he was stirred to his inmost depths.

"Sakes and daisies!" said Elias.

"Yes," Romeo Augustus went on, "I heard father say he didn't want the trouble of raising him,
so I concluded I would. But nobody must see him till he's raised, and Philemon he heard him
this very day. I must take him somewhere else. Where, Elias, oh, where can I carry him?"

Elias frowned and pondered. He was grieved not to have discovered "the Gibbage," but he would
do the handsome thing by Romeo Augustus.

Half an hour later the jolly old moon nearly fell out of the sky for laughing. There were Elias
and Romeo Augustus straining and tugging, coaxing and scolding, trying with might and main
to stifle the expostulations of Mephibosheth, as they bore him down to an unmowed meadow.

The ox-eye daisies opened their sleepy petals to see what all the stir was about. The buttercups
and dandelions craned themselves forward to peep.

Down in the meadow the boys drove a stake, and to it they fastened Mephibosheth. It was no
joke taking food to him now. The unmowed meadow was in sight of the house, and it seemed as
if one or another of the boys was always at the window. But Elias aided Romeo Augustus, and
between them Mephibosheth got his daily rations. Surely he was safe at last. Far from it.

"Who has been trampling the grass in the north pasture?" asked Romeo Augustus's father, a fortnight
later. "I followed the path made by feet that had no right there. At the end I found a stake.
Tied to the stake I found a--"

Solomon and Isaac looked surprised. John and Philemon shook their heads. They knew nothing
of the matter. Elias and Romeo Augustus quaked.

"At the end I found a--" repeated their father, gazing sternly round the table--"I found a--"

"Pig," said Romeo Augustus, in the smallest possible voice; and he fled from the table in an
agony of tears. His labor had been in vain. After all, Mephibosheth must die. How could he
endure it? He dared not glance out of the window of the chamber where he had taken refuge,
lest he should behold Mephibosheth led to slaughter. It seemed as if his heart would break in two.

But listen! What is that noise? A clatter as of falling boards. There is a sound as of hammering.
At first it seems to Romeo Augustus like Mephibosheth's death-knell. Thud, thud, thud, go the
blows. Drawn almost against his will, Romeo Augustus stealthily approaches the window. He glances
fearfully out. What does he see? His father pounding busily, making--what is he making? Can
it be? It is--it is a pen.

"Father!" gasps Romeo Augustus.

His father looks up and smiles. "Your pig must have a house to live in," says he. "I can't
have my meadow grass trampled."

Before noon Mephibosheth was in his new quarters. There was a parlor with two pieces of carpet
on the floor; there was a chamber with plenty of straw, whereon Mephibosheth could repose;
there was a dining-room, with what, in common language, might be termed a trough.

Such a life as that pig led! He was cared for tenderly. He was washed all over every morning,
and put to bed every night. He was not a very brilliant pig as far as his intellect went, it
must be confessed. He could do no tricks with cards; he could not be taught to jump through a hoop.

One year passed; Mephibosheth was large. Two years went by; Mephibosheth was wonderful. I would
I could say he was plump; that word does not begin to express his condition. It would be pleasant
to call him stout; that would not give the glimmer of an idea of his size. Corpulent would
be a refined way of stating it. Alas! corpulent means nothing as far as Mephibosheth is concerned.
That animal measured seven feet and twenty-two inches round his body. He weighed--truth is
great, and must be spoken--he weighed five hundred and fifty and two-third pounds.

He could not walk; his legs were pipe-stems under him. He could scarcely breathe. That is the
excuse for what happened.

