MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--... From Paris the news are alarming;[5] the struggle of the Liberal
Party leaning towards radicalism, or in fact merely their own promotion; principles are out
of the question. This state of affairs reacts in a very lamentable way upon the well-being
of the great European community. Great complaints are made that the working classes are deprived
of work and at the same time political agitation is kept up, which must have the effect of
stopping transactions of every description. The human race is a sad creation, and I trust the
other planets are better organised and that we may get there hereafter.... Your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 5: The Republican movement had been making rapid
    headway in Paris, and the leader of the Opposition, M. Odilon
    Barrot, proposed Guizot's impeachment on the 22nd of February.
    Louis Philippe, when it was unfortunately too late, consented
    to a change of Ministry, but the formation of a new Government
    proved impossible. The Revolution could have been quelled, had
    it not been for the King's reluctance to shed blood in defence
    of the Throne to which he had been elected; even to the
    agitators themselves the completeness of the Revolution was a
    surprise.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

DOWNING STREET, 23rd February 1848.

Lord Normanby's letters from Paris give a little information.[6]

There has been some fighting in the streets, and some apprehension for the night. But it does
not appear probable that any serious danger will be incurred, with the troops in such force
in Paris.

Hereafter there may be a serious struggle between the Government of the King, and the Republicans.
But in that case such men as M. Odilon Barrot will shrink from the contest.

    [Footnote 6: A letter from Lord Normanby on the 13th of
    March to Lord Palmerston (published in Ashley's Life of
    Palmerston, vol. i. chap. iii.) gives an account of the
    situation on the eve of the 22nd of February. On the 25th of
    February he wrote:--

    "The National Guards, mixed with the people, were in full
    march upon the Tuileries, and the latter threatening the life
    of the King, when Emile Girardin, the editor of the Presse
    newspaper, who was in advance as an officer of the National
    Guard, hastily drew up an Act of Abdication, and placed it
    before the King as the only means of safety. The King at
    first refused, saying that he would rather die; but the Duc de
    Montpensier urged him, not only for his own sake, but to save
    his country from confusion. The King at last signed it,
    and threw it impatiently at the Duc de Montpensier, who,
    I believe, has been in favour of conciliatory counsel
    throughout. The Royal Family then retired through the garden,
    the King saying to every one as he passed, 'J'abdique,
    j'abdique.'"]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 26th February 1848.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I am very unwell in consequence of the awful events at Paris. How will
this end? Poor Louise is in a state of despair which is pitiful to behold. What will soon become
of us God alone knows; great efforts will be made to revolutionise this country; as there are
poor and wicked people in all countries it may succeed.

Against France we, of course, have a right to claim protection from England and the other Powers.
I can write no more. God bless you. Ever your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: FLIGHT OF FRENCH ROYAL FAMILY]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 27th February 1848.

MY DEARLY BELOVED VICTORIA,--I understand by an account arrived this morning, and which seems
to be correct, that my unfortunate parents arrived in England before yesterday evening: but
I don't know where they are. (I don't know anything of them since the 23rd, evening!!!) But
you will surely know, and kindly forward the letter to my poor mother. I have just received
your kind letter of the 25th, but I am unable to say more to-day. You will easily conceive
my agony and anguish. What an unbelievable clap of thunder! I know still nothing of what Nemours
and Montpensier are become. I rely on your interest and sympathy, and remain as ever, yours
most devotedly,

LOUISE.

I hear this moment with an extreme relief that my parents were to arrive yesterday at London,
and thank God from the bottom of my heart for their safety! In my agony I did not wish for
anything else.

[Pageheading: THE KING OF PRUSSIA]

[Pageheading: ANARCHY IN PARIS]

The King of Prussia to Queen Victoria.

[Translation.]

27th February 1848.

MOST GRACIOUS QUEEN AND SISTER,--Even at this midnight hour of the day, on the evening of which
the awful news from Paris has arrived, I venture to address these lines to your Majesty. God
has permitted events which decisively threaten the peace of Europe.

It is an attempt to "spread the principles of the Revolution by every means throughout the
whole of Europe." This programme binds together both these individuals and their parties. The
consequences for the peace of the world are clear and certain. If the revolutionary party carries
out its programme, "The sovereignty of the people," my minor crown will be broken, no less
certainly than the mighty crowns of your Majesty, and a fearful scourge will be laid upon the
nations; a century [will follow] of rebellion, of lawlessness, and of godlessness. The late
King did not dare to write "by the Grace of God." We, however, call ourselves King "by the
Grace of God," because it is true. Well, then, most gracious Queen, let us now show to men,
to the peoples threatened with disruption and nameless misery, both that we understand our
sacred office and how we understand it. God has placed in your Majesty's hands, in the hands
of the two Emperors, in those of the German Federation, and in mine, a power, which, if it
now acts in union and harmony, with reliance on Heaven, is able humanly speaking, to enforce,
with certainty, the maintenance of the peace of the world. This power is not that of arms,
for these, more than ever, must only afford the ultima ratio.

The power I mean is "the power of united speech." In the year 1830 the use of this immeasurable
power was criminally neglected. But now I think the danger is much more pressing than it was
then. This power is divided among us in equal portions. I possess the smallest portion of it,
and your Majesty has by far the greatest share. That share is so great that your Majesty, by
your powerful word, might alone carry out the task. But the certainty of victory lies, subject
to the Divine blessing, solely in our utterance being united. This must be our message to France;
"that all of us are cordial well-wishers to France; we do not grudge her all possible welfare
and glory; we mean never to encroach on it, and we will stand by the new Government as by the
old, foi de gentils-hommes. But the first breach of the peace, be it with reference to Italy,
Belgium, or Germany would be, undoubtedly and at the same time, a breach with 'all of us,'
and we should, with all the power that God has given us, let France feel by sea and by land,
as in the years '13, '14, and '15, what our union may mean."

Now I bless Providence for having placed Lord Palmerston at the head of your Foreign Office,
and keeping him there at this very moment. During the last quarter of the past year I could
not always cordially agree with him. His genuine British disposition will honour this open
confession. All the more frankly may I now express the hopes which rise in me, from the very
fact of his holding that office at the present moment; for a more active, more vivid, more
energetic Minister of foreign affairs, a man that would more indefatigably pursue great aims,
your Majesty could probably never have. If at this grave hour he sets himself to proclaim that
our forces are united; if he himself utters his message as befits St George, he will earn the
blessing of millions, and the blessing of God and of the world will rest on your Majesty's
sacred head. That I am your Majesty's and Old England's most faithful and most devoted brother
and companion, you are aware, and I mean to prove it. On both, knees I adjure you, use, for
the welfare of Europe, "Engellands England."

With these words I fall at your Majesty's feet, most gracious Queen, and remain your Majesty's
most faithfully devoted, most attached Servant and good Brother,

FREDERIC WILLIAM.

P. S.--The Prince I embrace. He surely feels with me, and justly appraises my endeavours.

Post scriptum, 28th, in the evening.

I venture to open my letter again, for this day has brought us news from France, which one
can only call horrible. According to what we hear, there is no longer left a King in France.
A regency, a government, and the most complete anarchy has ensued, under the name of the Republic--a
condition of things in which, at first, there will be no possibility of communicating with
the people, infuriated with crime. In case a Government should evolve itself out of this chaos,
I conscientiously hold that the "united word" of the great Powers, such as I have indicated
in the preceding pages, should be made known, without any modification, to the new holders
of power. Your Majesty's gracious friendship will certainly not take amiss this addition to
my letter, though it be not conformable to strict etiquette.

The fate of the poor old King, of the Duchess of Orleans, of the whole honourable and amiable
family, cuts me to the heart, for up to this time we do not know what has become of any of
them. We owe Louis Philippe eighteen happy years of peace. No noble heart must forget that.
And yet--who would not recognise the avenging hand of the King of kings in all this?

I kiss your Majesty's hands.

[Pageheading: LETTER FROM QUEEN LOUISE]

[Pageheading: ANXIETY OF QUEEN LOUISE]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 28th February 1848.

MY DEARLY BELOVED VICTORIA,--What a misfortune! What an awful, overwhelming, unexpected and
inexplicable catastrophe. Is it possible that we should witness such events, and that this
should be the end of nearly eighteen years of courageous and successful efforts to maintain
order, peace, and make France happy, what she was? I have heard, I read hourly, what has happened:
I cannot believe it yet; but if my beloved parents and the remainder of the family are at least
safe I won't mind the rest. In the hours of agony we have gone through I asked God only to
spare the lives, and I ask still nothing else: but we don't know them yet all saved, and till
I have heard of my unfortunate parents, of my unhappy brothers far away, of all those for whom
I would lay my life at any moment and whose danger I could not even share or alleviate, I cannot
exist.

I was sure, my beloved Victoria, of all you would feel for us when you would hear of these
awful events. I received yesterday your two kind, warm, sympathising letters of the 25th and
26th, and thank you with all my heart for them, and for yours and Albert's share and sympathy.

Our anguish has been undescribable. We have been thirty-six hours without any news, not knowing
even if my parents and the family were still alive or not, and what had been their fate. Death
is not worse than what we endured during these horrible hours. We don't know yet what to think,
what to believe, I would almost say, what to wish; we are stunned and crushed by the awful
blow. What has happened is unaccountable, incomprehensible; it appears to us like a fearful
dream. Alas! I fear my dear beloved father was led away by his extreme courage; by that same
courage which had made his success and a part of his strength; for it is strange to say that
even those that deplored most his resolution never to yield on certain things gave him credit
for it. The exaggeration of the system of peace and resistance, or rather immobility, lost
him, as that of war lost Napoleon. Had he shunned less war on all occasions, and granted in
time some trifling reforms, he would have satisfied public opinion, and would probably be still
where he was only eight days ago, strong, beloved, and respected! Guizot's accession has been
as fatal as his fall, and is perhaps the first cause of our ruin, though my father cannot be
blamed for having kept him in office, as he had the majority in the Chamber, and an overwhelming
one. Constitutionally, he could not have been turned out, and it was impossible to foresee
that when all was quiet, the country prosperous and happy, the laws and liberty respected,
the Government strong, a Revolution--and such a Revolution--would be brought on by a few imprudent
words, and the resistance (lamentable as it was) to a manifestation which, in fact, the Government
had a right to prevent. It was the Almighty's will: we must submit. He had decreed our loss
the day He removed my beloved brother[7] from this world. Had he lived still, all this would
have turned otherwise. It has been also an immense misfortune that Joinville and Aumale were
both away. They were both popular (which poor dear never-to-be-sufficiently-respected Nemours
was not), energetic, courageous, and capable of turning chance in our favour. Oh! how I long
to know what is become of them! I cannot live till then, and the thought of my unfortunate
parents annihilates me! Poor dear Joinville had foreseen and foretold almost all that has happened,
and it was the idea of the crisis he apprehended which made him so unhappy to go. He repeated
it to me several times six weeks ago. Alas! nobody would believe him, and who could believe
that in a day, almost without struggle, all would be over, and the past, the present, the future
carried away on an unaccountable storm! God's will be done! He was at least merciful to my
dear Aunt, and I hope He will preserve all those dear to me!

Here everything is quiet: the horror general, and the best feeling and spirit prevailing. There
is still now nothing to fear: but if a republic really established itself in France, it is
impossible to tell what may happen. For this reason your Uncle thinks it right that we should
remove to some place of safety what we have of precious. If you permit I will avail myself
of the various messengers that are going now to send under your care several boxes, which you
will kindly send to Claremont to Moor, to keep with those your Uncle already sent. They contain
your Uncle's letters and those of my parents--the treasure I most value in the world.

29th.--MY DEARLY BELOVED VICTORIA,--This was written yesterday, in a moment of comparative
quiet, when I thought my parents at least safe and in security in England. Albert's letter
to your Uncle of the 27th, which arrived yesterday evening, says they were not arrived yet,
and I am again in the most horrible agony. I had also yesterday evening details of their flight
(my father flying!!!) by Madame de Murat, Victoire's lady, who has gone to England, which quite
distracted me. Thank God that Nemours and Clém at least are safe!I am quite unable to say more,
and I hope the Duchess and Alexandrine will excuse me if I don't write to them. Truly, I can't.
I thank you only once more, my beloved Victoria, for all your kindness and interest for my
unfortunate family, and trust all the anxiety you feel for us won't hurt you. God bless you
ever, with all those dear to you. Believe me always, my beloved Victoria, yours most devotedly,

LOUISE.

I send you no letter for my mother in the present uncertainty.

    [Footnote 7: The Duc d'Orléans, who was killed on 13th July
    1842.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 29th February 1848.

Lord John Russell declared last night that your Majesty would not interfere in the internal
affairs of France. But in repeating this declaration, in answer to Mr Cobden, he added that
the sacred duties of hospitality would be, as in all times, performed towards persons of all
opinions. Both declarations were generally cheered. In extending this hospitality to members
of the Royal Family of France, it is only to be observed that no encouragement should be given
by your Majesty to any notion that your Majesty would assist them to recover the Crown. In
this light it is desirable that no Prince of the House of Orleans should inhabit one of your
Majesty's palaces in or near London.

[Pageheading: THE NEW FRENCH GOVERNMENT]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

(Undated.)[8]

The Queen has perused the enclosed despatches and the proposed Minutes of a draft to Lord Normanby
with Lord John Russell's remarks. She approves generally of the Minutes, but would like that
amongst the laudable intentions of the new French Government, that of keeping inviolate the
European Treaties should be brought in in some way. In the paper No. 2, the expression "most
cordial friendship" strikes the Queen as rather too strong. We have just had sad experience
of cordial understandings. "Friendly relations" might do better or the whole sentence might
run thus: "that not peace only but cordial friendship with France had been at all times [instead
of "is one of the," etc.] one of the first wishes of the British Government, and that this
will remain," etc., etc., etc.

    [Footnote 8: Apparently written at the end of February.]

[Pageheading: ESCAPE OF KING LOUIS PHILIPPE]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 1st March 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Every hour seems to bring fresh news and events. Victoire and her children
and Montpensier are at Jersey, and are expected to arrive to-morrow. About the King and Queen,
we still know nothing, but we have some clue, and think he may be somewhere on the coast, or
even in England. We do everything we can for the poor dear Family, who are indeed most dreadfully
to be pitied; but you will naturally understand that we cannot make cause commune with them
and cannot take a hostile position opposite to the new state of things in France; we leave
them alone, but if a Government which has the approbation of the country be formed, we shall
feel it necessary to recognise it, in order to pin them down to maintain peace and the existing
Treaties, which is of great importance. It will not be pleasant for us to do this, but the
public good and the peace of Europe go before one's feelings. God knows what one feels towards
the French. I trust, dear Uncle, that you will maintain the fine and independent position you
are now in, which is so gratifying to us, and I am sure you will feel that much as we all must
sympathise with our poor French relations, you should not for that quarrel with the existing
state of things, which however is very uncertain. There were fresh reports of great confusion
at Paris, which is sure to happen. All our poor relations have gone through is worthy only
of a dreadful romance, and poor Clém behaves beautifully, courageously, and calmly, and is
full of resignation; but she can get no sleep, poor thing--and hears the horrid cries and sees
those fiend-like faces before her! The children are very happy with ours, but very unmanageable.
I saw the Duchesse de Montpensier to-day.

Now, with every wish for all going on well, believe me ever, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: MR FEATHERSTONHAUGH]

[Pageheading: A GRAPHIC NARRATIVE]

Mr Featherstonhaugh[9] to Viscount Palmerston.

HAVRE, 3rd March 1848.

MY DEAR LORD PALMERSTON,--It was a hair-trigger affair altogether, but thanks be to God everything
has gone off admirably. I was obliged to abandon the plan of trusting the King in a fishing-boat
from Trouville. The weather was very stormy; had he attempted to find the steamer, he might
have failed, for the sea was in a furious state and the wind ahead. There was also the danger
of the fishing-boat being lost, a contingency the very idea of which made me miserable.

I therefore abandoned the plan altogether, and after much and careful reflection determined
to execute one more within my control, and the boldness of which, though trying to the nerves,
was its very essence for success. It was to bring the King and Queen into Havre itself before
anybody could suspect such a dangerous intention, and have everything ready for their embarkation
to a minute. To carry out the plan, I wanted vigilant, intelligent, and firm agents, and I
found them as it turned out. It was known to me that the lower classes suspected it was M.
Guizot concealed at Trouville, and as some sinister occurrence might reasonably be expected
there, I sent a faithful person into Calvados. It was high time. The mob had assembled at the
place where the King was, who had to slip out at the back door and walk two leagues on foot.
At length he reached a small cottage belonging to a gardener at Honfleur, where the Queen was.
This was half-past six o'clock A.M. yesterday. My agent saw the King and Queen, who, after
some conversation, sent him back with this message, that they "would wait where they were until
they again heard from me, and would carry out my final arrangements with exactitude, as far
as it depended upon them." I now instructed Captain Paul to be ready at half-past seven P.M.,
when it would be dark, to have his water hot, ready to get up steam; to have only a rope moored
to the quay with an anchor astern; to expect me with a party a little before eight P.M., and
as soon as I had got on board with my party and told him to push off, he was to let me go on
shore, cut his rope and cable, get into the middle of the Basin, up with his steam and jib
and push for England. Not a word was to be spoken on board.

To get the King here from Honfleur the following method was adopted: M. Bresson, a loyal and
intelligent officer in the French Navy and well known to the King, and Mr Jones, my Vice-Consul
and principal Clerk, went in the steam ferry-boat a quarter before five P.M. to Honfleur. From
the landing-place it is three-quarters of a mile to the place where the King and Queen were
concealed. The ferry-boat was to leave Honfleur for Havre a quarter before seven o'clock. I
had given M. Bresson a passport for Mr and Mrs Smith, and with this passport the King was to
walk to the landing-place, where he was to be met by my Vice-Consul and be governed by him.

If the gens d'armes disputed his passport Mr Jones was to vouch for its regularity, and say
that he was sent by me to conduct Mr Smith to Havre, who was my Uncle. M. Bresson was to follow
with the Queen, and the rest of the suite were to come to the ferry-boat one after another,
but none of the party were to know each other. The ferry-boat was to arrive in Havre about
half-past seven, and I was to do the rest. A white pocket-handkerchief was to be twice exhibited
as a signal that all was right so far. The difficulty of the gens d'armes being infinitely
more to be provided against and apprehended here, I first confidentially communicated to the
greatest gossips in the town that I had seen a written statement from an official person that
the King had reached England in a fishing-boat from the neighbourhood of Tréport, and then
got some persons whom I could rely upon, sons of my tradesmen here who are in the National
Guard, to be near the steamer that was to receive the King, to give me their assistance if
it should be necessary, on account of the turbulence of the crowd, to embark some friends of
mine who were going to England. And if an extraordinary number of gens d'armes were stationed
at the steamer, and they hesitated about letting my Uncle go on board, then about one hundred
yards off I had two persons who were to pretend a quarrel and a fight, to which I knew the
gens d'armes would all go as well as the crowd. In the meantime I hoped that as Captain Paul
made no noise with his steam that the crowd would not assemble, and that we might find no gens
d'armes. The anxiously expected moment at length arrived. The ferry-boat steamer came to the
quay; it was almost dark, but I saw the white pocket-handkerchief. There was a great number
of passengers, which favoured the debarkation. When half of them were out, the trembling Queen
came up the ladder. I took her hand, told her it was me, and M. Bresson walked with her towards
our steamer. At last came the King, disguised, his whiskers shaved off, a sort of casquette
on his head, and a coarse overcoat, and immense goggles over his eyes. Not being able to see
well, he stumbled, when I advanced, took his hand and said, "Ah, dear Uncle, I am delighted
to see you." Upon which he answered, "My dear George, I am glad you are here." The English
about me now opened the crowd for their Consul, and I moved off to a quiet and shaded part
of the quay. But my dear Uncle talked so loud and so much that I had the greatest difficulty
to make him keep silence. At length we reached the steamer; it was like a clock-work movement.
The crowd was again opened for me. I conducted the King to a state-room below, gave him some
information, and having personally ascertained that the Queen was in her cabin, and being very
much touched with her tears and her grateful acknowledgments, I respectfully took my leave,
gave the Captain the word to cut loose, and scrambled ashore. In twenty minutes the steamer
was outside, steaming away for England. I drove down to the jetty, and had that last satisfaction
of seeing her beyond all possibility of recall, and then drove home. Much has been said this
morning about the mysterious departure of Captain Paul, and I have been obliged to confess
that the gentleman I was seen conducting on board was a brother of the King of Naples, who
was immensely frightened without cause, and that I had engaged the steamer for him and his
family. Many think, however, that it was the King, but then again that could not be if he crossed
over from Tréport in a fishing-boat. We have got everybody completely mystified, and there
are only four persons in the secret, who will all remain in the same story.

I have scribbled, amidst the most hurried engagements, this little narrative, believing that
it would interest your Lordship. It has the interest of romance and the support of truth. I
have the honour to be, etc.

G. W. FEATHERSTONHAUGH.

Information has just reached me that one hour after the King and Queen left their hiding-place
last night, and just when I was embarking them, an officer and three gens d'armes came to the
place to arrest him. They were sent by the new Republican Préfet. It appears that the man who
gave him refuge had confessed who he was as soon as the King had left Trouville, and had betrayed
the King's hiding-place at Honfleur. What an escape! Your Lordship will see a paragraph in
the enclosed newspaper not altogether false. We in the secret know nothing about Louis Philippe;
we know something about the Count of Syracuse and something about Mr William Smith. If it leaks
out, it must come from England. Here no one has any proof. In the meantime almost everybody
here is delighted to think that he may have escaped.

    [Footnote 9: British Consul at Havre. This letter was
    submitted to the Queen by Lord Palmerston.]

[Pageheading: ARRIVAL IN ENGLAND]

[Pageheading: RECEPTION AT CLAREMONT]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

CARLTON GARDENS, 3rd March 1848. (3 P.M.)

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and begs to state that General
Dumas has just been with him to announce that the King and Queen of the French landed this
morning at Newhaven, having been brought over in the Steam Packet Express, in which they embarked
at Havre yesterday evening about eight o'clock.

General Dumas says that till the morning of their arrival at Dreux the King and the Queen imagined
that the Comte de Paris had succeeded to the Throne, and that the Duchess of Orleans had been
declared Regent; that when they heard that a Republic and a Provisional Government had been
declared they thought it unsafe to remain at Dreux; and that they then separated in order to
go by different roads to Honfleur, where they were to meet at a small house belonging to a
friend of General Dumas. At that house they remained for some days, until Mr Featherstonhaugh
opened a communication with them. The King then removed to Trouville in order to embark from
thence in a manner which Mr Featherstonhaugh had arranged, and he remained there two or three
days for that purpose; but the weather was too stormy, and prevented his departure. In the
meanwhile the people of Trouville found out who he was, and their demonstrations of attachment
became inconvenient. He therefore returned to Honfleur, and the arrangements were altered.
Yesterday evening at seven o'clock the King, the Queen, and General Dumas came to the ferry-boat
which plies between Honfleur and Havre, and were met by the Vice-Consul, who treated the King
as uncle of the Consul. On landing at Havre the King walked straight down to the Express Packet,
which was lying ready; the Queen went separately, and after making a slight round through the
streets of Havre embarked also; the Packet then immediately started, and went into Newhaven
in preference to any other port, because no Packets start from thence for the French coast.
General Dumas says that the whole party were unprovided with anything but the clothes they
wore, and he was going to the King's banker to provide funds to enable him to come to town,
and said that the King begged him to apologise for his not having at once written to your Majesty
to thank your Majesty for the great interest which your Majesty has taken in his safety, and
for the assistance, which he has received for his escape, but that he would do so this evening.

General Dumas said that the King's present intention is to remain in England in the strictest
incognito, and that he and the Queen will assume the title of Count and Countess of Neuilly.

Viscount Palmerston explained to General Dumas that your Majesty has made arrangements for
the King's reception at Claremont, and that your Majesty intended to send down an officer of
your Majesty's Household to communicate with the King.

General Dumas said that the King would most gratefully avail himself of the arrangement as
to Claremont, but that under all circumstances, and as the King wished to remain in entire
privacy, he thought it would be better that no person from your Majesty's Household should
go down to the King at Newhaven, and that he was sure the King would rather find his own way
from the railway station at London Bridge to Claremont than attract attention by being met
at the station by any of your Majesty's carriages.

The King would remain to-night at Newhaven, and would come up to-morrow morning. General Dumas
said that the King and the Queen had gone through much personal fatigue and mental anxiety,
but are both well in health. The General was going to Count Jarnac before he returned to Newhaven.

[Pageheading: THE KING'S GRATITUDE]

The King of the French to Queen Victoria.

NEWHAVEN, SUSSEX, 3ème Mars 1848.

MADAME,--Après avoir rendu grâces à Dieu, mon premier devoir est d'offrir à votre Majesté l'hommage
de ma reconnaissance pour la généreuse assistance qu'elle nous a donnée, à moi et à tous les
miens et que la Providence vient de couvrir d'un succès complet, puisque j'apprends qu'ils
sont tous à présent sur la terre hospitalière de l'Angleterre.

Ce n'est plus, Madame, que le Comte de Neuilly qui, se rappelant vos anciennes bontés, vient
chercher sous ses auspices, un asyle et une retraite paisible et aussi éloignée de tout rapport
politique que celle dont il y a joui dans d'autres temps, et dont il a toujours précieusement
conservé le souvenir.

On me presse tellement pour ne pas manquer le train qui emportera ma lettre que j'ai à peine
le temps de prier votre Majesté d'être mon interprète auprès du Prince votre auguste Époux.

Ma femme, accablée de fatigue par la vie que nous venons de mener depuis dix jours! écrira
un peu plus tard à votre Majesté. Tout ce qu'elle a pu faire, est de tracer quelques mots pour
notre bien aimée Louise que je recommande à votre bonté. On me presse encore, Madame, je ne
puis que me souscrire avec mon vieil attachement pour vous, de votre Majesté, très affectionné,

LOUIS PHILIPPE.

The Queen of the French to Queen Victoria.

NEWHAVEN, 3ème Mars 1848.

MADAME,--A peine arrivée dans cette contrée hospitalière après 9 jours d'une cruelle agonie,
mon premier sentiment, après avoir béni la Divine Providence, c'est de remercier, du fond de
mon c[oe]ur, votre Majesté, pour les facilités qu'elle a bien voulu nous donner pour venir
dans ce pays terminer nos vieux jours dans la tranquillité et l'oubli. Une vive inquiétude
me tourmente, c'est d'apprendre le sort de mes enfants chéris desquels nous avons dû nous séparer;
j'ai la confiance qu'ils auront trouvé aussi un appui dans le c[oe]ur généreux de votre Majesté,
et qu'ils auront été également sauvés comme leur admirable Père, mon premier trésor. Que Dieu
vous bénisse, Madame, ainsi que le Prince Albert et vos enfants, et vous préserve de malheurs
pareils aux nôtres, c'est le v[oe]u le plus sincère de celle qui se dit, Madame, de votre Majesté,
la toute dévouée,

MARIE AMÉLIE.

[Pageheading: ARRIVAL OF GUIZOT]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

After the vicissitudes of a long life, it may be no irremediable calamity if a Prince of great
powers of mind and warm domestic affections is permitted by Providence to end his days in peace
and tranquillity.

Of course all enmity to his projects as a King ceases with his deposition.

M. Guizot came to London from Dover at half-past six.

Queen Victoria to the King of the French.

PALAIS DE BUCKINGHAM, 3ème Mars 1848.

SIRE ET MON CHER FRÈRE,--C'était une consolation bien vive pour moi de recevoir la bonne lettre
de votre Majesté qui m'a bien touchée. Nous avons tous été dans de vives inquiétudes pour vous,
pour la Reine et toute la famille, et nous remercions la Providence pour que vous soyez arrivés
en sûreté sur le sol d'Angleterre, et nous sommes bien heureux de savoir que vous êtes ici
loin de tous ces dangers qui vous ont récemment menacés. Votre Majesté croira combien ces derniers
affreux événements si inattendus nous ont péniblement agités. Il nous tarde de savoir que vos
santés n'ont pas été altérées par ces derniers jours d'inquiétude et de fatigue. Albert me
charge d'offrir les hommages à votre Majesté, et je vous prie de déposer les nôtres aux pieds
de la Reine, à qui je compte répondre demain. Je me dis, Sire et mon bon Frère, de votre Majesté,
la bien affectionnée S[oe]ur,

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to the Queen of the French.

PALAIS DE BUCKINGHAM, 4ème Mars 1848.

MADAME,--Votre Majesté aura excusé que je ne vous ai pas de suite remercié de votre bonne et
aimable lettre de hier. C'est des fonds de mon c[oe]ur que je me réjouis de vous savoir en
sûreté à Claremont avec le Roi. Mes pensées étaient auprès de votre Majesté pendant tous ces
affreux jours, et je frémis en pensant à tout ce que vous avez souffert de corps et d'âme.

Albert sera le Porteur de ces lignes; j'aurais été si heureuse de l'accompagner pour vous voir,
mais je n'ose plus quitter Londres.

CARLTON GARDENS, 5th March 1848.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and cannot see that there could
be any objection to the King and Queen of the French coming to town to visit your Majesty,
and indeed, on the contrary, it would seem under all the circumstances of the case natural
that they should be anxious to see your Majesty, and that your Majesty should be desirous of
receiving them.

Viscount Palmerston was sure that your Majesty would read with interest Mr Featherstonhaugh's
account of the manner in which he managed the escape of the King and Queen of the French. It
is like one of Walter Scott's best tales, and the arrangements and the execution of them do
great credit to Mr Featherstonhaugh, who will be highly gratified to learn, as Viscount Palmerston
proposes to inform him, that your Majesty has approved his conduct. Mr Featherstonhaugh has
also probably rendered a good service to the Provisional Government, who would have been much
embarrassed if their Commissioner had arrested the King and Queen.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 7th March 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Albert has written to you so constantly that I have little to add; he just
tells me this is not quite true. However, there is nothing very new except that we have seen
the King and Queen; Albert went down to Claremont to see them on Saturday, and yesterday they
came here with Montpensier. They both look very abattus, and the poor Queen cried much in thinking
of what she had gone through--and what dangers the King had incurred; in short, humbled poor
people they looked. Dearest Vic I saw on Sunday; she has also gone through much, and is so
dear and good and gentle. She looked wonderfully well considering. They are still very much
in want of means, and live on a very reduced scale.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S VIEW OF THE CRISIS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 11th March 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I profit by the departure of Andrews to write to you a few lines, and to
wish you joy of the continued satisfactory behaviour of my friends, the good Belgians; fervently
do I hope and really trust all will go on well; but what an extraordinary state of things everywhere!
"Je ne sais plus où je suis," and I fancy really that we have gone back into the old century.
But I also feel one must not be nervous or alarmed at these moments, but be of good cheer,
and muster up courage to meet all the difficulties.

Our little riots are mere nothing, and the feeling here is good.... What is your opinion as
to the late events at Paris? Do you not think the King ought to have retired to Vincenness
or somewhere else a day or two before, and put himself at the head of the army? Ought not Montpensier
at least to have gone to Vincennes? I know Clém even thinks this--as also that one ought to
have foreseen, and ought to have managed things better. Certainly at the very last, if they
had not gone, they would all have been massacred; and I think they were quite right, and in
short could not avoid going as quickly as they could; but there is an impression they fled
too quickly. Still the recollection of Louis XVI.... is enough to justify all, and everybody
will admit that; but the Princes, they think, ought to have remained. What do you think of
all this? I think the blunders were all on the last three or four days--and on the last day,
but were no longer to be avoided at last; there seemed a fatality, and all was lost. Poor Nemours
did his best till he could no longer get to the troops. People here also abuse him for letting
Victoire go alone--but he remained to do his duty; a little more empressement on her arrival
here I would have wished. Albert told you all about the Montpensiers' journey. It would do
the King irreparable mischief if they went now to Spain; the feeling of anger would all return.
Poor people! they are all in a sad state of want at present.

I must conclude. Hoping to hear from you, and to have your opinion.

Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S SYMPATHY]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 15th March 1848.

The Queen cannot let this day pass without offering Lord Melbourne hers and the Prince's best
wishes for many happy returns of it in health and strength.

Lord Melbourne will agree with the Queen that the last three weeks have brought back the times
of the last century, and we are in the midst of troubles abroad. The Revolution in France is
a sad and alarming thing.... The poor King and his Government made many mistakes within the
last two years, and were obstinate and totally blind at the last till flight was inevitable.
But for sixteen years he did a great deal to maintain peace, and made France prosperous, which
should not be forgotten.... Lord Melbourne's kind heart will grieve to think of the real want
the poor King and Queen are in, their dinner-table containing barely enough to eat. And the
poor Nemours hardly know which way to turn. If the private property be not restored God only
knows what is to become of these distinguished young Princes and their little children. What
will be their avenir? It breaks one's heart to think of it, and the Queen, being so nearly
related to them and knowing them all, feels it very much. Surely the poor old King is sufficiently
punished for his faults. Lord Beauvale will surely be shocked at the complete ruin of the family.
Has he seen or heard from his old friend Madame de Montjoye, who is here with the Queen of
the French? The poor dear Queen of the Belgians is quite broken-hearted, but, thank God, Belgium
goes on admirably. In Germany also there are everywhere disturbances, but the good Germans
are at bottom very loyal....

The state of Paris is very gloomy; the rabble armed--keeping the Government in awe--failures
in all directions, and nothing but ruin and misery. This is too gloomy a letter for a birthday,
and the Queen must apologise for it. The Prince wishes to be kindly remembered to Lord Melbourne.

[Pageheading: THE CZAR'S VIEW]

The Emperor of Russia to Queen Victoria.

                    22 Mars
ST. PETERSBURG, le ------- 1848.
                    3 Avril

MADAME MA S[OE]UR,--Veuillez me permettre, Madame, d'offrir à votre Majesté mes sincères félicitations
de son heureuse délivrance.[10] Puisse le bon Dieu conserver votre Majesté et toute son auguste
famille, c'est mon v[oe]u de tous les jours. Plus que jamais, Madame, au milieu des désastres
qui renversent l'ordre social, l'on éprouve le besoin de relier les liens d'amitié que l'on
a été heureux de former dans de meilleurs temps; ceux-là au moins nous restent, car ils sont
hors de la portée des hommes, et je suis fier et heureux de ce que votre noble c[oe]ur me comprendra.
En jettant les yeux sur ce qui se passe, peut-être votre Majesté accordera-t-elle un souvenir
à ce que j'eus l'honneur de lui prédire, assis à table près d'elle: depuis, 4 années à peine
se sont écoulées, et que reste-t-il encore debout en Europe? La Grande-Bretagne et la Russie!

Ne serait-il pas naturel d'en conclure que notre union intime est appelée peut-être à sauver
le monde? Excusez, Madame, cet épanchement d'un c[oe]ur qui vous est dévoué et qui a pris l'habitude
de souvenir à vous.

J'ose avec une entière confiance compter sur l'amitié de votre Majesté, et la prie de recevoir
l'assurance de l'inviolable attachement avec lequel je suis, Madame, de votre Majesté, le tout
dévoué et fidèle bon Frère et Ami,

NICOLAS.

Veuillez, Madame, me rappeler au souvenir de son Altesse Royale Monsieur le Prince Albert.

    [Footnote 10: The Princess Louise was born on 18th March.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 25th March 1848.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--... England seems quiet, and even the attempt in Ireland seems to have
passed over. But Germany is in an awful state, beyond what I ever should have thought possible
in that country, and with such a good nation. For years, however, all sorts of people had been
stirring them up, and half measures, seeming dishonest, of the Sovereigns have done harm. Curious
enough that I, who in fact was desirous of retiring from politics, should be on the Continent
the only Sovereign who stood the storm, though I am at ten hours' distance from Paris. I trust
we shall be able to go on with our money matters to enable us to keep up; our working classes
are at this moment what occupies us most, and much has been done, and our Banks, which were
much threatened, are now safe.

We work hard, and with these few days I suffered a little, but I am better to-day. Louise is
tolerably well; the poor children are attentive and amiable. Poor things! their existence is
a good deal on the cards, and fortunes, private and public, are in equal danger.

Now I will leave you that you should not be tired.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have to thank you for three most kind letters, of the 18th and 25th March,
and of the 1st. Thank God, I am particularly strong and well in every possible respect, which
is a blessing in these awful, sad, heart-breaking times. From the first I heard all that passed,
and my only thoughts and talk were--Politics; but I never was calmer and quieter or less nervous.
Great events make me quiet and calm, and little trifles fidget me and irritate my nerves. But
I feel grown old and serious, and the future is very dark. God, however, will come to help
and protect us, and we must keep up our spirits. Germany makes me so sad; on the other hand,
Belgium is a real pride and happiness.

We saw your poor father and mother-in-law with the Nemours, Joinville, and Aumale yesterday.
Still a dream to see them thus, here!They are well in health, and the young people's conduct
most praiseworthy; really the three Princesses are astonishing, and a beautiful lesson to every
one. They are so much admired and respected for it. My beloved Vic, with her lovely face, is
perfection, and so cheerful. She often comes to see me, and this is a great pleasure to me,
if only it was not caused by such misfortunes!

Now good-bye. With fervent prayers for the continuation of your present most flourishing position,
ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Lord John Russell to the Prince Albert.

CHESHAM PLACE, 9th April 1848.

SIR,--The Cabinet have had the assistance of the Duke of Wellington in framing their plans
for to-morrow.

Colonel Rowan[11] advised that the procession should be formed, and allowed to come as far
as the bridge they may choose to pass, and should there be stopped. He thinks this is the only
way to avoid a fight. If, however, the Chartists fire and draw their swords and use their daggers,
the Military are to be called out.

I have no doubt of their easy triumph over a London mob.

But any loss of life will cause a deep and rankling resentment. I trust, for this and every
reason, that all may pass off quietly. I have the honour to be, your Royal Highness's most
obedient Servant,

J. RUSSELL.

    [Footnote 11: Chief Commissioner of Police, afterwards Sir
    C. Rowan, K.C.B. The Chartist meeting had been fixed for the
    10th.]

[Pageheading: THE UNEMPLOYED]

The Prince Albert to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 10th April 1848.

MY DEAR LORD JOHN,--To-day the strength of the Chartists and all evil-disposed people in the
country will be brought to the test against the force of the law, the Government, and the good
sense of the country. I don't feel doubtful for a moment who will be found the stronger, but
should be exceedingly mortified if anything like a commotion was to take place, as it would
shake that confidence which the whole of Europe reposes in our stability at this moment, and
upon which will depend the prosperity of the country. I have enquired a good deal into the
state of employment about London, and I find, to my great regret, that the number of workmen
of all trades out of employment is very large, and that it has been increased by the reduction
of all the works under Government, owing to the clamour for economy in the House of Commons.
Several hundred workmen have been discharged at Westminster Palace; at Buckingham Palace much
fewer hands are employed than are really wanted; the formation of Battersea Park has been suspended,
etc., etc. Surely this is not the moment for the tax-payers to economise upon the working classes!
And though I don't wish our Government to follow Louis Blanc in his system of organisation
du travail,[12] I think the Government is bound to do what it can to help the working classes
over the present moment of distress. It may do this consistently with real economy in its own
works, whilst the reductions on the part of the Government are followed by all private individuals
as a sign of the times. I have before this spoken to Lord Morpeth[13] upon this subject, but
I wish to bring it specially under your consideration at the present moment. Ever yours truly,

ALBERT.

    [Footnote 12: Alluding to the Ateliers Nationaux, to
    be established under the guidance of a Council of
    Administration.]

    [Footnote 13: Chief Commissioner of Woods and Forests.]

[Pageheading: FEARGUS O'CONNOR]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

DOWNING STREET, 10th April 1848.

About 12,000 or 15,000 persons met in good order. Feargus O'Connor, upon arriving upon the
ground in a car, was ordered by Mr Mayne[14] to come and speak to him. He immediately left
the car and came, looking pale and frightened, to Mr Mayne. Upon being told that the meeting
would not be prevented, but that no procession would be allowed to pass the bridges, he expressed
the utmost thanks, and begged to shake Mr Mayne by the hand. He then addressed the crowd, advising
them to disperse, and after rebuking them for their folly he went off in a cab to the Home
Office, where he repeated to Sir George Grey his thanks, his fears, and his assurances that
the crowd should disperse quietly. Sir George Grey said he had done very rightly, but that
the force at the bridges should not be diminished.

Mr F. O'Connor--"Not a man should be taken away. The Government have been quite right. I told
the Convention that if they had been the Government they never would have allowed such a meeting."

The last account gave the numbers as about 5,000 rapidly dispersing.

The mob was in good humour, and any mischief that now takes place will be the act of individuals;
but it is to be hoped the preparations made will daunt those wicked but not brave men.

The accounts from the country are good. Scotland is quiet. At Manchester, however, the Chartists
are armed, and have bad designs.

A quiet termination of the present ferment will greatly raise us in foreign countries.

Lord John Russell trusts your Majesty has profited by the sea air.

    [Footnote 14: Mr Richard Mayne, Commissioner of Police,
    created a K.C.B. in 1851.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 15th April 1848.

Lord John Russell has a letter from Lord Clarendon to-day in better spirits, but somewhat fearing
an outbreak in Dublin to-night. He speaks confidently of the disposition of the troops.

Lord John Russell cannot wonder that your Majesty has felt deeply the events of the last six
weeks. The King of the French has brought upon his own family, upon France, and upon Europe
a great calamity. A moderate and constitutional Government at home, coupled with an abstinence
from ambitious projects for his family abroad, might have laid the foundation of permanent
peace, order, and freedom in Europe. Selfishness and cunning have destroyed that which honesty
and wisdom might have maintained. It is impossible not to pity the innocent victims of the
misconduct of Louis Philippe. Still less can one refrain from regarding with dread the fearful
state of Germany, of her princes, her nobles, and her tempest-tossed people.

The example of Great Britain, may, however, secure an interval of reflection for Europe. The
next six months will be very trying, but they may end with better prospects than we can now
behold. It was impossible that the exclusion of free speaking and writing which formed the
essence of Prince Metternich's system could continue. It might have been reformed quietly;
it has fallen with a crash which spreads ruin and death around.

Lady John is deeply grateful for the congratulations of your Majesty and the Prince.[15] She
is going on well to-day.

    [Footnote 15: On the birth of a second son.]

[Pageheading: ALARMING STATE OF IRELAND]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 16th April 1848.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's letter. The state of Ireland is most alarming and
most anxious; altogether, there is so much inflammable matter all around us that it makes one
tremble. Still, the events of Monday must have a calming and salutary effect. Lord John Russell's
remarks about Europe, and the unfortunate and calamitous policy of the Government of the poor
King of the French are most true. But is he not even most to be pitied for being the cause
of such misery? (Though perhaps he does not attribute it to himself), for, to see all his hopes
thus destroyed, his pride humbled, his children--whom he loves dearly--ruined--is not this
enough to make a man wretched? and indeed much to be pitied; for he cannot feel he could not
have prevented all this. Still Guizot is more to blame; he was the responsible adviser of all
this policy: he is no Bourbon, and he ought to have behaved differently. Had the poor King
died in 1844 after he came here, and before that most unfortunate Spanish marriages question
was started, he would have deservedly gone down to posterity as a great monarch. Now, what
will be his name in history? His fate is a great moral!

With regard to Germany, Prince Metternich is the cause of half the misfortune. His advice was
taken by almost all the sovereigns of that country, and it has kept them from doing in time
what has now been torn from them with the loss of many rights which they need not have sacrificed.
We heard yesterday that the Archduke John[16] had arrived at Frankfort. This is a wise measure,
and may do much good and prevent much evil, as he is a popular and most distinguished prince....

    [Footnote 16: Uncle of the Emperor (Ferdinand I.) of Austria,
    born 1782.]

[Pageheading: LORD PALMERSTON AND THE QUEEN]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 17th April 1848.

The Queen not having heard anything from Lord Palmerston respecting foreign affairs for so
long a time, and as he must be in constant communication with the Foreign Ministers in these
most eventful and anxious times, writes to urge Lord Palmerston to keep her informed of what
he hears, and of the views of the Government on the important questions before us.

She now only gets the Drafts when they are gone.

The acceptance of the mediation between Denmark and Holstein is too important an event not
to have been first submitted to the Queen.

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

CARLTON GARDENS, 18th April 1848.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and regrets much that he has
not lately had an opportunity of giving your Majesty verbally such explanations as your Majesty
might wish to receive with respect to the progress of foreign affairs, but Viscount Palmerston
hopes to be able to get down to Broadlands for a few days on Saturday next, and he could easily
from thence wait upon your Majesty on any morning and at any hour your Majesty might be pleased
to appoint.

Although events of the greatest importance have been passing in rapid succession in almost
every part of Europe, the position of your Majesty's Government has been one rather of observation
than of action, it being desirable that England should keep herself as free as possible from
unnecessary engagements and entanglements, in order that your Majesty may be at liberty to
take such decisions as the state of things may from time to time appear to render most advisable.

[Pageheading: LOYALTY OF BELGIUM]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BARTON, 18th April 1848.

DEAREST UNCLE,--Detained here by a heavy shower of rain, I begin my letter to you and thank
you warmly for your dear and kind letter of the 15th, which I received yesterday.

Truly proud and delighted are we at the conduct of the Belgians,[17] and at their loyalty and
affection for you and yours, which I am sure must be a reward for all that you have done these
seventeen years. I must beg to say that you are wrong in supposing that no mention is made
of what took place on the 9th in our papers; on the contrary, it has been most gratifyingly
mentioned in the Times, Chronicle, John Bull, etc. You are held up as a pattern to the German
Sovereigns, and the Belgians as a pattern to the German people.

In France, really things go on dreadfully.... One does not like to attack those who are fallen,
but the poor King, Louis Philippe, has brought much of this on by that ill-fated return to
a Bourbon Policy. I always think he ought not to have abdicated; every one seems to think he
might have stemmed the torrent then still. On the other hand, Joinville says it was sure to
happen, for that the French want constant change, and were quite tired of the present Government.
Qu'en dites-vous? How is poor, dear Louise? I hope her spirits are better.

Our weather is terribly rainy, though very fine between. We have got nightingales in the pleasure
ground, and in the wood down near the sea. We are all extremely well, and expect the Prince
of Prussia here to-day for two nights. Ever your devoted and attached Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 17: A party of French Republicans entered Belgium
    with the intention of exciting an insurrection; the attempt
    signally failed.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 1st May 1848.

The Queen has this morning received Lord Palmerston's letter.[18] She cannot see any reason
for deviating from the established rules, and inviting to Court Frenchmen who are not recognised
in their official capacity, and have no natural representatives to present them as private
individuals. As an invitation cannot be claimed by them, the omission of it ought not to lead
to any misrepresentation; whilst the contrary, under the fiction of their being private individuals,
might lead to misconstruction and to most inconvenient precedents.

    [Footnote 18: M. de Tallenay had arrived in London with a
    letter from M. Lamartine, accrediting him as provisional
    chargé d'affaires of the French Government, and Lord
    Palmerston had suggested to the Queen that etiquette would not
    be violated by inviting him to a Court Ball.]

[Pageheading: AFFAIRS IN FRANCE]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 9th May 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Many thanks for your very kind letter of the 6th. How delightful it is to
hear such good accounts of Belgium! If only dear Germany gets right and if all our interests
(those of the smaller Sovereigns) are not sacrified! I cannot say how it distresses and vexes
me, and comme je l'ai à c[oe]ur. My good and dear Albert is much worried and works very hard....

I had a curious account of the opening of the Assemblée from Lady Normanby.[19] No real enthusiasm,
dreadful confusion, and the Blouses taking part in everything, and stopping the Speakers if
they did not please them. The opinion is that it cannot last.

I enclose another letter from Lady Normanby, with an account of the poor Tuileries, which is
very curious and sad; but the respect shown for poor Chartres is very touching, and might interest
poor dear Louise, if you think fit to show it her. But why show such hatred to poor Nemours
and to the Queen? Montpensier's marriage may cause his unpopularity, possibly. I shall beg
to have the letter back.

I must conclude, as we are going to pay a visit at Claremont this afternoon. Ever your truly
devoted Child and Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 19: The National Assembly commenced its sittings on
    4th May, when the Oath of Allegiance was abolished, and the
    Republic proclaimed in the presence of 200,000 citizens.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 16th May 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have just heard the news of the extraordinary confusion at Paris, which
must end in a Blutbad. Lamartine has quite lost all influence by yielding to and supporting
Ledru Rollin![20] It seems inexplicable! In Germany, too, everything looks most anxious, and
I tremble for the result of the Parliament at Frankfort.[21] I am so anxious for the fate of
the poor smaller Sovereigns, which it would be infamous to sacrifice. I feel it much more than
Albert, as it would break my heart to see Coburg reduced.

Many thanks for your kind and dear letter of the 13th. Thank God! that with you everything
goes on so well. I will take care and let Lord Normanby know your kind expressions. The visit
to old Claremont was a touching one, and it seemed an incomprehensible dream to see them all
there. They bear up wonderfully. Nothing can be kinder than the Queen-Dowager's behaviour towards
them all. The poor Duchess of Gloster is again in one of her nervous states, and gave us a
dreadful fright at the Christening by quite forgetting where she was, and coming and kneeling
at my feet in the midst of the service. Imagine our horror!

I must now conclude. The weather is beautiful, but too hot for me. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 20: Lamartine and Ledru Rollin were members of the
    Provisional Government, and subsequently of the Executive
    Committee. The mob, holding that the promises of general
    employment had been broken, invaded the Assembly en masse,
    and attempted a counter-revolution.]

    [Footnote 21: Out of the revolutionary movement in Germany
    had grown their National Assembly, which after a preliminary
    session as a Vor-Parlament, was to reassemble on 18th May.]

[Pageheading: AUSTRIA AND ITALY]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

(No date.)

The Queen has carefully perused the enclosed papers, and wishes to have a copy of Baron Hummelauer's[22]
note sent to her to keep.

The basis laid down in it is quite inadmissible, and the Queen was struck by the light way
in which the claims of the Dukes of Parma and Modena are spoken of (as disposed of by the events),
whilst their position and that of Austria are in every respect identical.[23] The Queen thinks
Lord Palmerston's proposition the one which is the most equitable, still likely to be attained,
but it does not go far enough; the position which Austria means to take in Italy with her Italian
province ought to be explained, and a declaration be made that Austria will, with this province,
join any Italian league which the other states of Italy may wish to establish. This will be
useful to Italy, and much facilitate the acceptance of the Austrian proposal, as the Queen
feels convinced that as soon as the war shall be terminated, the question of the political
constitution of Italy (as a whole) will have to be decided. Why Charles Albert ought to get
any additional territory the Queen cannot in the least see. She thinks it will be better to
proceed at once upon the revised Austrian proposal, than to wait for Italian propositions,
which are sure to be ridiculously extravagant.

    [Footnote 22: The Austrian Government, in its efforts to
    maintain its ascendency in Lombardy, had sent Baron Hummelauer
    to negotiate with Lord Palmerston.]

    [Footnote 23: The Dukes had both been driven from their
    dominions, while the King (Charles Albert) of Sardinia threw
    in his lot with the cause of United Italy as against Austria,
    which then ruled Lombardy.]

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND SPAIN]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 23rd May 1848.

The Queen has received Lord Palmerston's letter respecting Spain and Italy this morning. The
sending away of Sir H. Bulwer[24] is a serious affair, which will add to our many embarrassments;
the Queen is, however, not surprised at it, from the tenor of the last accounts from Madrid,
and from the fact that Sir H. Bulwer has for the last three years almost been sporting with
political intrigues. He invariably boasted of at least being in the confidence of every conspiracy,
"though he was taking care not to be personally mixed up in them," and, after their various
failures, generally harboured the chief actors in his house under the plea of humanity. At
every crisis he gave us to understand that he had to choose between a "revolution and a palace
intrigue," and not long ago only he wrote to Lord Palmerston, that if the Monarchy with the
Montpensier succession was inconvenient to us, he could get up a Republic. Such principles
are sure to be known in Spain, the more so when one considers the extreme vanity of Sir H.
Bulwer, and his probable imprudence in the not very creditable company which he is said to
keep. Lord Palmerston will remember that the Queen has often addressed herself to him and Lord
John, in fear of Sir H. getting us into some scrape; and if our diplomatists are not kept in
better order, the Queen may at any moment be exposed to similar insults as she has received
now in the person of Sir H. Bulwer; for in whatever way one may wish to look at it, Sir Henry
still is her Minister.

The Queen wishes Lord Palmerston to show this letter to Lord John Russell, and to let her know
what the Government mean to propose with respect to this unfortunate affair.

    [Footnote 24: Lord Palmerston had written a letter to Bulwer
    (which the latter showed to the Spanish Premier), lecturing
    the Spanish Queen on her choice of Minister. This "assumption
    of superiority," as Sir R. Peel called it, led to a peremptory
    order to Bulwer to leave Spain in twenty-four hours. His own
    account of the affair appears in his Life of Palmerston,
    vol. iii. chap. vii.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE OF PRUSSIA]

The Prince of Prussia to Queen Victoria.

[Translation.]

BRUSSELS 30th May 1848.

MOST GRACIOUS COUSIN,--I obey the impulse of my heart in seizing my pen, without any delay,
in order to express to you my warmest and most heartfelt thanks for the infinitely gracious
and affectionate way with which you and the Prince have treated me during my stay in London.[25]
It was a melancholy time, that of my arrival. By the sympathetic view which you took of my
situation, most gracious Cousin, it became not only bearable, but even transformed into one
that became proportionately honourable and dignified. This graciousness of yours has undoubtedly
contributed towards the change of opinion which has resulted in my favour, and so I owe to
you, to the Prince, and to your Government, a fortunate issue out of my calamities. So it is
with a heavy heart that I have now left England, not knowing what future lies before me to
meet--and only knowing that I shall need the strengthening rest and tranquillity which my stay
in England and an insight into her institutions have afforded me in full measure.

Offering my most cordial remembrances to the Prince, to whom I shall write as soon as possible,
I remain, most gracious Cousin, your faithful and most gratefully devoted Cousin,

PRINCE OF PRUSSIA.

    [Footnote 25: The Prince of Prussia, afterwards the Emperor
    William I., having become intensely unpopular at Berlin, had
    been obliged in March to fly for his life, in disguise, viâ
    Hamburg, to England.]

[Pageheading: THE ROYAL EXILES]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 1st June 1848.

The Queen had not time the other day to talk to Lord John Russell on the subject of the French
Royal Family, and therefore writes to him now. As it seems now most probable that they, or
at least some of them, will take up their residence for a lengthened period in this country,
and as their position is now a defined one, viz. that of exiles, their treatment should be
defined and established.

At first everything seemed temporary, and the public were much occupied with them, inclined
to criticise all that was done or was omitted by the Court; all their movements were recorded
in the papers, etc. The lapse of three months has a good deal altered this. They have lived
in complete retirement, and are comparatively forgotten; and their poverty and their resignation
to their misfortunes have met with much sympathy! The Queen is consequently anxious to take
the right line; particularly desirous to do nothing which could hurt the interests of the country,
and equally so to do everything kind towards a distinguished Royal Family in severe affliction,
with whom she has long been on terms of intimacy, and to whom she is very nearly related. She
accordingly wishes to know if Lord John sees any objection to the following: She has asked
her Cousin, the Duchess of Nemours, to come for two or three nights to see her at Osborne when
she goes there, quite privately; the Duchess of Kent would bring her with her. The Duke will
not come with the Duchess, as he says he feels (very properly) it would be unbecoming in him
till their fate (as to fortune, for banished they already are) is decided, to be even for a
day at Osborne. The Duchess herself wishes not to appear in the evening, but to remain alone
with the Queen and the Prince.

The Queen considers that when she is staying in the country during the summer and autumn, and
any of the branches of the French Royal Family should wish to visit her and the Prince, as
they occasionally do here, she might lodge them for one or two nights, as the distance might
be too great for their returning the same day. They are exiles, and not Pretenders, as the
Duc de Bordeaux and Count de Montemolin are (and who are for that reason only not received
at Court). In all countries where illustrious exiles related to the Sovereign have been they
have always been received at Court, as the Duc de Bordeaux, the Duchesse d'Angoulême, etc.,
etc., invariably have been at Vienna (even on public occasions), there being a French Ambassador
there, and the best understanding existing between France and Austria. The Duke of Orleans
(King Louis Philippe) in former times was constantly received by the Royal Family, and was
the intimate friend of the Duke of Kent. Probably, if their fortunes are restored to them,
the French Royal Family will go out into society in the course of time, and if the state of
France becomes consolidated there may no longer exist that wish and that necessity for extreme
privacy, which is so obvious now. What the Queen has just mentioned, Lord John must well understand,
is not what is likely to take place (except in the case of her cousin, the Duchess of Nemours)
immediately, but only what might occasionally occur when we are permanently settled in the
country. Of course events might arise which would change this, and which would render it inadvisable,
and then the Queen would communicate with Lord John, and ask his advice again upon the subject.
All she has suggested refers to the present state of affairs, and, of course, merely to strictly
private visits, and on no state occasion. This is a long letter about such a subject, but the
Queen wishes to be quite safe in what she does, and therefore could not have stated the case
and her opinion in a smaller space.

[Pageheading: AFFAIRS IN LOMBARDY]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 4th June 1848.

The Queen returns the enclosed draft. She has written upon it, in pencil, a passage which she
thinks ought to be added, if the draft--though civil--is not to be a mere refusal to do anything
for Austria, and a recommendation that whatever the Italians ask for ought to be given, for
which a mediation is hardly necessary.[26] The Queen thinks it most important that we should
try to mediate and put a stop to the war, and equally important that the boundary which is
to be settled should be such a one as to make a recurrence of hostilities unlikely. The Queen
has only further to remark that Lord Palmerston speaks in the beginning of the letter only
of the Cabinet, and adverts nowhere to the proposition having been submitted to her.

An Emperor with a rational Constitution might be a fair termination of the French follies;
but Louis Napoleon, with the Communists, will probably destroy the last chance of order and
tranquillity. A despotism must be the end.

May Heaven preserve us in peace!

[Pageheading: SIR HENRY BULWER]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 15th June 1848.

The Queen has received Lord Palmerston's letter explaining his views as to the reparation we
may be entitled to receive from the Spanish Government. She considers them as quite fair, but
does not wish to have Sir H. Bulwer again as her Minister at Madrid, even if it should be necessary
that he should repair there in order to be received by the Queen of Spain. It would not be
consulting the permanent interests of this country to entrust that mission again to Sir H.
Bulwer, after all that has passed. When the Queen considers the position we had in Spain, and
what it ought to have been after the constitution of the French Republic when we had no rival
to fight and ought to have enjoyed the entire confidence and friendship of Spain, and compares
this to the state into which our relations with that country have been brought, she cannot
help being struck how much matters must have been mismanaged.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 16th June 1848.

The Queen sends the enclosed draft,[27] and asks whether this note is what Lord John directed
Lord Palmerston to send to Lisbon as a caution to Sir H. Seymour not to mix himself up with
party intrigues to upset a particular Ministry?[28] ...

    [Footnote 27: The draft ran:--"As it is evident that the Queen
    and the Government of Portugal will listen to no advice except
    such that agrees with their own wishes, I have to instruct you
    to abstain in future from giving any longer any advice to them
    on political matters, taking care to explain both to the
    Queen and the Government your reasons for doing so. You will,
    however, at the same time positively declare to the Portuguese
    Government that if by the course of policy they are pursuing
    they should run into any difficulty, they must clearly
    understand that they will not have to expect any assistance
    from England."]

    [Footnote 28: Lord John Russell replied that he would write
    immediately to Lord Palmerston respecting Portuguese affairs.
    He added that he did not approve of the proposed draft.]

Viscount Palmerston to Lord John Russell.

CARLTON GARDENS, 17th June 1848.

MY DEAR JOHN RUSSELL,--The draft to Seymour was written in consequence of what you said to
me, and what the Queen wrote to you; but my own opinion certainly is that it would be best
to leave the things with him as they are. It must, however, be remembered that the Portuguese
Government have not in reality fulfilled the engagements taken by the Queen in the Protocol
of last year....

PALMERSTON.

[Pageheading: PALMERSTON'S FOREIGN POLICY]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 17th June 1848.

The Queen returns Lord Palmerston's letter. The country is at this moment suffering, particularly
with regard to Spain, under the evil consequence of that system of diplomacy, which makes the
taking up of party politics in foreign countries its principal object. This system is condemned
alike by the Queen, Lord John, the Cabinet, and, the Queen fully believes, public opinion in
and out of Parliament. Lord Palmerston's objection to caution our Minister in Portugal against
falling into this fault brings it to an issue, whether that erroneous policy is to be maintained
to the detriment of the real interests of the country, or a wiser course to be followed in
future. Does Lord John consider this so light a matter as to be surrendered merely because
Lord Palmerston is not to add to such a caution a gratuitous attack upon the Queen and Government
of Portugal? The Queen thinks it of the utmost importance that in these perilous times this
question with regard to the basis of our foreign policy should be settled, and has no objection
to Lord John showing this letter to Lord Palmerston.

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

Lord John Russell feeling, however, that on the particular point at issue your Majesty has
just reason to expect that precautions should be taken against the chance of intrigue with
foreign parties against a foreign government, with which this country is on terms of friendship,
is ready to insist on an instruction to Sir Hamilton Seymour similar to that which was given
to Sir Henry Bulwer to take no part in the struggle of parties, and to refrain from any interference
with respect to which he has not specific directions from your Majesty's Government.

But in this case he must take upon himself the whole responsibility of requiring such a note
from Lord Palmerston. It would not be conducive to your Majesty's service, nor agreeable to
the wholesome maxims of the Constitution to mix your Majesty's name with a proceeding which
may lead to the most serious consequences.

It is just to Lord Palmerston to say that his general course of policy has met with the warm
approval of the Cabinet, and that the cases of difference of judgment have been rare exceptions.

Lord John Russell submits to your Majesty the letter he proposes to write before sending it
to Lord Palmerston. He would wish to have it returned as soon as your Majesty can do so.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN AND PALMERSTON]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 18th June 1848.

The Queen returns to Lord John Russell his letter to Lord Palmerston,[29] which is excellent,
and shows that the Queen's and Lord John's views upon the important question of our foreign
policy entirely coincide. The Queen is sorry that the trouble of such an altercation should
be added to the many anxieties which already press upon Lord John, but she feels sure that
his insisting upon a sound line of policy will save him and the country from far greater troubles....

    [Footnote 29: The letter was to the effect that Sir H. Seymour
    was to take no part in the struggle of parties in Portugal,
    and to refrain from confidential communications with members
    of the Opposition.]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

CARLTON GARDENS, 26th June 1848.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and is sorry he is not able to
submit to your Majesty the proposed draft to Sir Hamilton Seymour to go by to-night's mail,
as he has not succeeded in settling the wording of it with Lord John Russell, and is therefore
obliged to defer it till the next mail.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 26th June 1848.

The Queen sends this letter, which she has just received from Lord Palmerston. No remonstrance
has any effect with Lord Palmerston. Lord John Russell should ask the Duke of Bedford to tell
him of the conversation the Queen had with the Duke the other night about Lord Palmerston.

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND ITALY]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 1st July 1848.

The Queen has not yet answered Lord Palmerston's letter of the 29th. She cannot conceal from
him that she is ashamed of the policy which we are pursuing in this Italian controversy in
abetting wrong, and this for the object of gaining influence in Italy.[30] The Queen does not
consider influence so gained as an advantage, and though this influence is to be acquired in
order to do good, she is afraid that the fear of losing it again will always stand in the way
of this. At least in the countries where the greatest stress has been laid on that influence,
and the greatest exertions made for it, the least good has been done--the Queen means in Spain,
Portugal, and Greece. Neither is there any kind of consistency in the line we take about Italy
and that we follow with regard to Schleswig; both cases are perfectly alike (with the difference
perhaps that there is a question of right mixed up in that of Schleswig); whilst we upbraid
Prussia, caution her, etc., etc., we say nothing to Charles Albert except that if he did not
wish to take all the Emperor of Austria's Italian Dominions, we would not lay any obstacles
in the way of his moderation. The Queen finds in Lord Palmerston's last despatch to Chevalier
Bunsen the following passage: "And it is manifest and indisputable that no territory or state,
which is not now according to the Treaty of 1815 included in the German Confederation, can
be added to that territory without the consent of the Sovereign of that territory or state."
How does this agree with our position relative to the incorporation of Lombardy into the states
of the King of Sardinia?

    [Footnote 30: Lord Palmerston's sympathy had been with the
    anti-Austrian movement in Northern Italy. For some time after
    Radetzky's evacuation of Milan, the operations of the King of
    Sardinia in support of the Lombards were successful, and he
    had assistance from Tuscany, Naples, and Rome. The Austrians
    suffered reverses at Peschiera and Goito, and the independence
    of Northern Italy seemed to be accomplished. But the tide had
    begun to turn.]

[Pageheading: LORD MINTO'S MISSION]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 6th July 1848.

The Queen has to acknowledge Lord Palmerston's long Memorandum respecting our relations with
Italy, the length of which, however, was fully justified by the importance of the subject.

The mission of Lord Minto has had the Queen's approval at the time, and the policy pursued
by him has never been called in question; but it certainly was prejudicial to the Austrians,
and imposes upon us additional care not to appear now as the abettors of the anti-Austrian
movement, and nothing in Lord Minto's mission can prevent our endeavouring to facilitate and
forward a speedy settlement of the present Italian difference.[31] If, therefore, the Italians
should be inclined to be moderate, there can be no dereliction of principle in encouraging
them to be so. The danger of French interference increases with the delay and is equally great,
whether the Austrians maintain themselves in the Venetian Territory or whether Charles Albert
unite it to his proposed kingdom of Northern Italy; indeed, the French seem to be anxious for
a cause of interference from the line they pursue even with regard to Naples.

Lord Palmerston seeks to establish a difference between the case of Schleswig and of Lombardy,
on the fact that Schleswig is to be incorporated into a confederation of States; but this makes
the case of Lombardy only the stronger, as this is to be incorporated into the dominions of
another Sovereign. With regard to the "Revue Retrospective," the perusal of it has left a different
impression upon the Queen from that which it seems to have made upon Lord Palmerston. It proved
to her, that while the retiring attitude which the late Government took with regard to the
Spanish marriages, left the French Government to try their different schemes and intrigues
and to fail with every one of them, the attempt of Lord Palmerston to re-organise the Progressista
Party and regain the so-called English influence, brought Queen Christina and King Louis Philippe
(who had before seriously quarrelled) immediately together, and induced them to rush into this
unfortunate combination, which cannot but be considered as the origin of all the present convulsions
in Europe.

    [Footnote 31: Lord Minto, the Lord Privy Seal, and
    father-in-law of the Prime Minister, had been sent to
    encourage in the path of reform Pope Pius IX., who was halting
    between progress and reaction: on the sanguinary risings
    taking place in Lombardy and Venetia, his mission naturally
    appeared hostile to Austria.]

[Pageheading: AN ANXIOUS PERIOD]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 11th July 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--For another kind and dear letter of the 8th, I have much to thank you. The
prosperity of dear little Belgium is a bright star in the stormy night all around. May God
bless and prosper you all, for ever and ever!

Since the 24th February I feel an uncertainty in everything existing, which (uncertain as all
human affairs must be) one never felt before. When one thinks of one's children, their education,
their future--and prays for them--I always think and say to myself, "Let them grow up fit for
whatever station they may be placed in--high or low." This one never thought of before, but
I do always now. Altogether one's whole disposition is so changed--bores and trifles which
one would have complained of bitterly a few months ago, one looks upon as good things and quite
a blessing--provided one can keep one's position in quiet!

I own I have not much confidence in Cavaignac,[32] as they fear his mother's and brother's
influence, the former being a widow of a regicide, and as stern and severe as can be imagined.

I saw the King and Queen on Saturday; he is wonderfully merry still and quite himself, but
she feels it deeply--and for her there is here the greatest sympathy and admiration.

Albert is going to York to-morrow till Friday; how I wish you and Louise could be with me,
as in '44 and '46! I have, however, got dear Victoire to come and spend a night with me; it
does her always good, and we are just like sisters, and feel as we did in 1839, when you know
how very fond we were of each other. She is a dear, noble, and still beautiful child.

I venture to send you a snuff-box with poor Aunt Charlotte's picture as a child, which also
belonged to poor Aunt Sophia. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 32: General Cavaignac, Minister for War, had been
    given quasi-dictatorial powers during the insurrection.
    These powers, on the suppression of the revolt, he resigned,
    and was thereupon almost unanimously made President of the
    Council.]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 13th July 1848.

The Queen was glad to hear of the majorities the other night. She concludes Lord John Russell
cannot at all say when the Session is likely to end? Is it not much to be regretted that the
measure relative to the Navigation Laws is given up, and was it unavoidable? The Queen sends
Lord John Col. Phipps's report of the Prince's reception at York, which she thinks will interest
him. Does Lord J. Russell think, if we should not go to Ireland, that we could go to Balmoral
for ten days or a fortnight, without shocking the Irish very much? It strikes the Queen that
to go to see our own place makes a difference, and is in fact a natural thing; it is, however,
impossible to say if we can get away even for so short a time.

The Queen concludes that there can be no possible objection to the Duc de Nemours bringing
or fetching the Duchess to and from Osborne? He is the Queen's Cousin, and consequently in
a different position to any of the others; moreover, he does not wish at present to spend one
night there even, but merely to pay a morning visit.

Lastly, the Queen wishes to know if the King and Queen and the other Princes and Princesses
should themselves ask to come and pay the Queen a morning visit at Osborne, and return again
the same day (as they do here), there would be any objection to it? The Queen merely wishes
to know, in case they should ask leave to do so, what she can answer.

[Pageheading: COMMISSIONS IN THE ARMY]

Queen Victoria to Sir George Grey.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 14th July 1848.

The Queen has received Sir George Grey's letter of yesterday, and has considered the proposed
alteration in the mode of preparing Commissions for Officers in the Army. The Queen does not
at all object to the amount of trouble which the signature of so many Commissions has hitherto
entailed upon her, as she feels amply compensated by the advantage of keeping up a personal
connection between the Sovereign and the Army, and she very much doubts whether the Officers
generally would not feel it as a slight if, instead of their Commissions bearing the Queen's
sign-manual, they were in future only to receive a certificate from the Secretary at War that
they have been commissioned.

She therefore prefers matters to remain on their old footing.

The Secretary at War speaks in his Memorandum of his responsibility to Parliament with respect
to allowing Appointments to go on; the Queen apprehends that his responsibility does not extend
beyond the appropriation of the money voted by Parliament for the use of her Army.

The Princess Charlotte of Belgium to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 18th July 1848.

MY DEAREST COUSIN,--I have received the beautiful dolls' house you have been so kind as to
send me, and I thank you very much for it. I am delighted with it; every morning I dress my
doll and give her a good breakfast; and the day after her arrival she gave a great rout at
which all my dolls were invited. Sometimes she plays at drafts on her pretty little draft-board,
and every evening I undress her and put her to bed.

Be so good, my dearest Cousin, as to give my love to my dear little Cousins, and believe me
always, your most affectionate Cousin,

CHARLOTTE.

[Pageheading: ITALY AND FRANCE]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 24th July 1848.

The Queen has received Lord Palmerston's letter[33] reporting his conversation with M. de Tallenay.
She can only repeat her opinion that a negotiation with France in order to agree with her upon
a common line of policy to be followed with regard to the Italian question can lead to no good;
it will make us the ally of a Government which is not even legally constituted, and which can
accordingly not guarantee the fulfilment of any engagement it may enter into, and it will call
upon the very power to judge the Italian dispute which it is the interest of Europe to keep
out of it. M. de Tallenay seems to have admitted that the French Republic, if called upon to
act, will neither allow Austria to keep the Venetian territory nor Sardinia to acquire it,
but that she will strive to set up a Venetian Republic. It can really not be an object for
us to assist in such a scheme, or even to treat upon it.

Lord Cowley the Queen means to invite to dinner to-day, and she wishes Lord Palmerston to let
her know the day on which he is to leave for Frankfort in order that she may prepare her letter
for the Archduke accordingly.

    [Footnote 33: Lord Palmerston had reported an interview with
    de Tallenay, who sought the co-operation of England with France
    in Northern Italy; the Austrian force in Italy to be withdrawn
    or reduced, the union of Lombardy and Piedmont to be accepted
    as a fait accompli, and Venetian territory erected into a
    separate republic.]

[Pageheading: NORTHERN ITALY]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 25th July 1848.

The Queen sends Lord John Russell the enclosed Despatch from Lord Normanby, with a draft in
answer to it which was sent for her approval, but which she really cannot approve. The Queen
must tell Lord John what she has repeatedly told Lord Palmerston, but without apparent effect,
that the establishment of an entente cordiale with the French Republic, for the purpose of
driving the Austrians out of their dominions in Italy, would be a disgrace to this country.
That the French would attach the greatest importance to it and gain the greatest advantage
by it there can be no doubt of; but how will England appear before the world at the moment
when she is struggling to maintain her supremacy in Ireland, and boasts to stand by treaties
with regard to her European relations, having declined all this time to interfere in Italy
or to address one word of caution to the Sardinian Government on account of its attack on Austria,
and having refused to mediate when called upon to do so by Austria, because the terms were
not good enough for Sardinia, if she should now ally herself with the arch-enemy of Austria
to interfere against her at the moment when she has recovered in some degree her position in
the Venetian territory?

The notion of establishing a Venetian State under French guarantee is too absurd. Lord Palmerston
in his draft says that we believe that the French plan would be agreed to by Austria. Now this
is completely at variance with every account, report, or despatch we have received from Verona,
Innspruck, or Vienna; however, Lord Palmerston hints that the King of Sardinia might expect
still better terms. The French Republic seems not to be anxious for war, not able to conduct
it, and the country appears to be decidedly against it; all M. Bastide says is: "There were
two extremes which it would be very difficult for them to admit without opposition, viz. the
restoration of Lombardy to the Dominion of Austria on the one side, and the union under one
powerful state under Charles Albert of all the principalities into which the north of Italy
has hitherto been divided." With this explicit declaration, it would surely be best for the
interests of Europe that we should name this to Charles Albert, and call upon him to rest satisfied
with his conquest, and to conclude a peace with Austria, leaving her what he cannot take from
her, and thus avoid calling in France as an arbiter. Why this has not been done long ago, or
should not be done now, the Queen cannot comprehend.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 27th July 1848.

The Queen has to acknowledge Lord John Russell's two letters with respect to Italy. The alterations
in the draft meet many of the Queen's objections, giving to the whole step another appearance.
The Queen ... must acknowledge the advantage of our trying to bind [the French] to good conduct;
only this must be done in a way not to appear as a league with them against a friendly Power,
struggling to preserve to herself a territory granted to her by a Treaty to which we were a party.

As the amended draft secures us against these appearances, and leaves us free for the future,
the Queen approves it.

[Pageheading: MINOR GERMAN STATES]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 1st August 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I had yesterday the happiness of receiving your kind letter of the 29th,
for which I return my best thanks.

There are ample means of crushing the Rebellion in Ireland,[34] and I think it now is very
likely to go off without any contest.... Lord Hardinge is going over there to serve on the
Staff, which is very praiseworthy of him.

I do not think the fate of the Minor Princes in Germany is so completely decided as Charles[35]
... is so anxious to make one believe. There is only a question of taking certain powers and
rights away, and not at all of getting rid of them; and I think you will see that the Ausführung
of the Unity will be an impossibility, at least in the sense they propose at Frankfort. The
Archduke John has spoken very reassuringly both to Ernest and the Duke of Meiningen, and the
attachment in many of those smaller principalities is still extremely great, and I am sure
they will never consent to being ausgewischt. Coburg, for instance, on the occasion of the
suppression of a very small riot, showed the greatest attachment and devotion to Ernest; at
Gotha the feeling of independence is very great, and at Strelitz, on the occasion of Augusta's
confinement with a son, the enthusiasm and rejoicing was universal. All this cannot be entirely
despised.

We are as happy as possible here, and would be perfectly so, if it was not for the sorrow and
misfortunes of so many dear to us, and for the state of the world in general.

I have always forgotten to tell you that we bought a fine marble bust of you quite by accident
in London the other day. It is in armour and with moustaches, but quite different to the one
the Gardners have at Melbourne; Albert saw it at the window of a shop, and heard it had been
bought in a sale of a General Somebody. Now, with Albert's best love, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

We have just heard that there has been an action in Ireland in which some of the insurgents
have been killed; fifty Police dispersed four thousand people. Smith O'Brien is, however, not
yet taken.

    [Footnote 34: See Introductory Note for the year, ante, p.
    141.]

    [Footnote 35: The Frankfort Assembly, in pursuance of the
    policy of German consolidation, had placed the central
    executive power in the hands of a Reichsverweser, or Vicar
    of the Empire. The Archduke John, uncle of the Emperor
    of Austria, was elected to this position, and the Queen's
    half-brother Charles, Prince of Leiningen, was entrusted with
    the Department of Foreign Affairs.]

[Pageheading: AN AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 8th August 1848.

... The Queen has attentively perused the statement of Lord Palmerston in favour of accrediting
an Ambassador at Paris. As the proposed arrangement for the present is to be only a provisional
one, the Queen thinks that the appointment of a Minister now will leave it quite open to have
an Ambassador hereafter, if it should be found necessary or advantageous, whilst it would set
that matter at rest for the moment. Withdrawing an Ambassador and substituting a Minister hereafter,
would be much more difficult. The French Republic would no doubt like to have an Ambassador
here, and perhaps take immediate steps to secure that object if Lord Normanby were accredited
Ambassador at Paris, against which we would be secured in having only a Minister there....
Lord Normanby's acquaintance with the public men at Paris is as much an inconvenience as it
may be a convenience in some respects; his having been the great admirer and friend of M. Lamartine,
for instance, etc., etc. The possibility of mixing freely with persons of various kinds, which
Lord Palmerston adduces as an important consideration will, in the Queen's opinion, be more
easy for a Minister than for a person of the high rank of Ambassador. All things considered
therefore, the Queen will prefer to have temporarily a Minister accredited at Paris.

M. de Tallenay the Queen would receive in London on Tuesday next at six o'clock, when the Queen
will be in Town.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 11th August 1848.

The Queen has to acknowledge Lord Palmerston's letter of yesterday. The Queen was quite surprised
to hear from Lord Palmerston in his last communication that he had written to Lord Normanby
to offer him to stay as Minister at Paris, after his having before stated to the Queen that
this would never do and could not be expected from Lord Normanby; Lord Normanby's answer declining
this offer therefore does in no way alter the matter, and must have been foreseen by Lord Palmerston.
By the delay and Lord Normanby's various conversations with M. Bastide[36] and General Cavaignac
it has now become difficult to depart from the precedent of the Belgian and Sardinian Missions
without giving offence at Paris. The Queen must, however, insist upon this precedent being
fully adhered to. She accordingly sanctions Lord Normanby's appointment as Ambassador Extraordinary,
on the distinct understanding that there is to be no Ambassador sent in return to London now,
and that a Minister is to be appointed to Paris when the diplomatic intercourse is permanently
to be settled. The Queen wishes Lord Palmerston to bear this in mind, and to submit to her
the arrangement which he thinks will be best calculated to carry this into effect.

    [Footnote 36: Minister of Foreign Affairs.]

[Pageheading: LORD NORMANBY'S APPOINTMENT]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 11th August 1848.

The Queen has to acknowledge Lord John Russell's letter of to-day. The Queen is highly indignant
at Lord Palmerston's behaviour now again with respect to Lord Normanby's appointment; he knew
perfectly well that Lord Normanby could not accept the post of Minister, and had written to
the Queen before that such an offer could not be made, and has now made it after all, knowing
that, by wasting time and getting the matter entangled at Paris, he would carry his point.
If the French are so anxious to keep Lord Normanby as to make any sacrifice for that object,
it ought to make us cautious, as it can only be on account of the ease with which they can
make him serve their purposes. They, of course, like an entente cordiale with us at the expense
of Austria;... but this can be no consideration for us....

Threatening the Austrians with war, or making war upon them in case they should not be inclined
to surrender their provinces at his bidding [Lord Palmerston] knows to be impossible; therefore
the entente with the Republic is of the greatest value to him, enabling him to threaten the
Austrians at any time with the French intervention which he can have at command if he agrees
to it.[37] The Queen has read the leading articles of the Times of yesterday and to-day on
this subject with the greatest satisfaction as they express almost entirely the same views
and feelings which she entertains. The Queen hopes that Lord John Russell will read them; indeed,
the whole of the Press seem to be unanimous on this subject, and she can hardly understand
how there can be two opinions upon it....

    [Footnote 37: The success of the Piedmontese in Northern Italy
    had not continued through the summer, and the States whose
    assistance they had hitherto received began to fall away from
    them. The King of Naples, successful within his own dominions,
    had withdrawn his troops; the Pope hesitated to attack
    Austria; even undivided support from Venetia could no longer
    be counted upon. After several reverses, Charles Albert, now
    left virtually alone in the contest, was decisively defeated
    by Radetzky, at Custozza, and retreated across the Mincio.
    With what was left of his troops he entered Milan, which he
    was eventually forced to surrender, being unable to maintain
    himself there. Italy now turned to France for assistance, but
    Cavaignac, virtually Dictator in Paris, would not go further
    than combining with England to effect a peaceful mediation.
    Austria was not in a frame of mind to relinquish any part of
    the provinces she had had so severe a struggle to retain.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN AND PALMERSTON]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 20th August 1848.

The Queen has received an autograph letter from the Archduke John (in answer to the private
letter she had written to him through Lord Cowley), which has been cut open at the Foreign
Office. The Queen wishes Lord Palmerston to take care that this does not happen again. The
opening of official letters even, addressed to the Queen, which she has of late observed, is
really not becoming, and ought to be discontinued, as it used never to be the case formerly.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 21st August 1848.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's letter of yesterday, but cannot say that she has
been satisfied by the reasons given by Lord Palmerston. The union of Lombardy and Piedmont
cannot be considered as a concession to France for the maintenance of peace, because we know
that it is the very thing the French object to. The Queen quite agrees that the principal consideration
always to be kept in sight is the preservation of the peace of Europe; but it is precisely
on that account that she regrets that the terms proposed by Lord Palmerston (whilst they are
not in accordance with the views of France) are almost the only ones which must be most offensive
to Austria. Lord Palmerston will have his kingdom of Upper Italy under Charles Albert, to which
every other consideration is to be sacrificed, and Lord Normanby's alteration of the terms
certainly serve that purpose well; but it is quite independent of the question of mediation,
and the only thing in the whole proceeding which is indefensible in principle.

It will be a calamity for ages to come if this principle is to become part of the international
law, viz. "that a people can at any time transfer their allegiance from the Sovereign of one
State to that of another by universal suffrage (under momentary excitement)," and this is what
Lord Normanby--no doubt according to Lord Palmerston's wishes--has taken as the basis of the
mediation. For even the faits accomplis, which are a convenient basis to justify any act of
injustice, are here against Charles Albert.

Lord Palmerston's argument respecting Schleswig,[38] which the Queen quoted in her last letter,
had no reference to the Treaty of 1720.

    [Footnote 38: The first act of the Vor-Parlament, a body
    which had existed temporarily at Frankfort, to pave the way
    for the National Assembly of a Consolidated Germany, had been
    to treat Schleswig, theretofore part of the Danish dominions,
    as absorbed in the German Confederation, and Lord Palmerston's
    objections to this proceeding had been treated by the Queen
    in a letter of 19th August as inconsistent with his attitude
    towards Austria.]

[Pageheading: PRUSSIA AND GERMANY]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 29th August 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Most warmly do I thank you for your very kind and dear letter of the 26th,
with so many good wishes for that dearest of days. It is indeed to me one of eternal thankfulness,
for a purer, more perfect being than my beloved Albert the Creator could not have sent into
this troubled world. I feel that I could not exist without him, and that I should sink under
the troubles and annoyances and dégoûts of my very difficult position, were it not for his
assistance, protection, guidance, and comfort. Truly do I thank you for your great share in
bringing about our marriage.

Stockmar I do not quite understand, and I cannot believe that he really wishes to ruin all
the smaller States, though his principal object is that unity which I fear he will not obtain.

I do not either at all agree in his wish that Prussia should take the lead; his love for Prussia
is to me incomprehensible, for it is the country of all others which the rest of Germany dislikes.
Stockmar cannot be my good old friend if he has such notions of injustice as I hear attributed
to him. But whatever they may be, I do not believe the Ausführung to be possible.

I have great hopes of soon hearing of something decided about the fortunes of the poor French
family. You will have seen how nobly and courageously good Joinville and Aumale behaved on
the occasion of the burning of that emigrant ship off Liverpool.[39] It will do them great
good. I must now conclude. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 39: One hundred and seventy-eight persons perished
    in the burning of the Ocean Monarch; the French Princes were
    on board a Brazilian steam frigate, which saved one hundred
    and fifty-six lives.]

[Pageheading: AUSTRIA DECLINES MEDIATION]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 2nd September 1848.

The Queen has read in the papers the news that Austria and Sardinia have nearly settled their
differences, and also "that it was confidently stated that a French and British squadron, with
troops on board, are to make a demonstration in the Adriatic."

Though the Queen cannot believe this, she thinks it right to inform Lord Palmerston without
delay that, should such a thing be thought of, it is a step which the Queen could not give
her consent to.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 4th September 1848.

The Queen since her arrival in Town has heard that the answer from Austria declining our mediation
has some days ago been communicated to Lord Palmerston. The Queen is surprised that Lord Palmerston
should have left her uninformed of so important an event. The Queen has received Lord Palmerston's
letter respecting the proposal to mediate on the part of the central power of Germany,[40]
and does not see why that power, which has a responsible Government, is to be precluded from
taking part in a negotiation because the Archduke John might be friendly towards Austria--whereas
the French republic, which had in public documents espoused the Italian Cause, is to be a party
to it.

Neither France nor England are neighbours to or directly interested in Lombardy, whereas Germany
is both.[41]

    [Footnote 40: See ante, p. 188, note 35.]

    [Footnote 41: Lord Palmerston's object, in which he ultimately
    succeeded, was, by obtaining the French Government's
    co-operation in mediating between Austria and Piedmont, to
    prevent the aggressive party in France from maturing any
    designs on Italy.]

[Pageheading: AUSTRIA AND ITALY]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

ON BOARD THE Victoria and Albert, ABERDEEN, 7th September 1848.

The Queen must send the enclosed draft to Lord John Russell, with a copy of her letter to Lord
Palmerston upon it. Lord Palmerston has as usual pretended not to have had time to submit the
draft to the Queen before he had sent it off. What the Queen has long suspected and often warned
against is on the point of happening, viz. Lord Palmerston's using the new entente cordiale
for the purpose of wresting from Austria her Italian provinces by French arms. This would be
a most iniquitous proceeding. It is another question whether it is good policy for Austria
to try to retain Lombardy, but that is for her and not for us to decide. Many people might
think that we would be happier without Ireland or Canada. Lord John will not fail to observe
how very intemperate the whole tone of Lord Palmerston's language is.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BALMORAL CASTLE, 13th September 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I yesterday received your dear and kind letter of the 9th (it having arrived
in London only the day before), which is very quick, and I thank you much for it. The Schleswig
affair at Frankfort is very unfortunate, and there seems a lamentable want of all practical
sense, foresight, or even common prudence.[42]

The poor Austrians seem now to accept the (to me very doubtful) mediation. It reminds me of
the wolf in the lamb's skin. Nous verrons, how matters will be arranged....

My letter to Louise will have informed you of our voyage and our arrival here. This house is
small but pretty, and though the hills seen from the windows are not so fine, the scenery all
around is the finest almost I have seen anywhere. It is very wild and solitary, and yet cheerful
and beautifully wooded, with the river Dee running between the two sides of the hills. Loch
Nagar is the highest hill in the immediate vicinity, and belongs to us.

Then the soil is the driest and best known almost anywhere, and all the hills are as sound
and hard as the road. The climate is also dry, and in general not very cold, though we had
one or two very cold days. There is a deer forest--many roe deer, and on the opposite hill
(which does not belong to us) grouse. There is also black cock and ptarmigan. Albert has, however,
no luck this year, and has in vain been after the deer, though they are continually seen, and
often quite close by the house. The children are very well, and enjoying themselves much. The
boys always wear their Highland dress.

I must now wish you good-bye, and repeat how much delighted we are that everything goes on
so well in Belgium. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 42: The incorporation of Schleswig had been forcibly
    resisted, and Sweden determined on armed intervention; but a
    temporary armistice was arranged in August. This the National
    Assembly attempted to disavow, but a few days after this
    letter was written it was ratified.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN AND PALMERSTON]

Memorandum by Queen Victoria.

BALMORAL, 19th September 1848.

I said to Lord John Russell, that I must mention to him a subject, which was a serious one,
one which I had delayed mentioning for some time, but which I felt I must speak quite openly
to him upon now, namely about Lord Palmerston; that I felt really I could hardly go on with
him, that I had no confidence in him, and that it made me seriously anxious and uneasy for
the welfare of the country and for the peace of Europe in general, and that I felt very uneasy
from one day to another as to what might happen. Lord John replied that he was aware of it;
that he had considered the matter already, having heard from his brother (the Duke of Bedford)
how strongly I felt about it; that he felt the truth of all that I had said, but that, on the
other hand, Lord Palmerston was a very able man, entirely master of his office and affairs,
and a very good colleague, never making any difficulties about other questions, but (certainly
unreasonably) complaining of other people mixing with and interfering in the affairs of his
office. I said that ... I fully believed that that Spanish marriage question, which had been
the original cause of so many present misfortunes, would never have become so embrouillé had
it not been for Lord Palmerston. This led Lord John to say, that though he disapproved the
length of Lord Palmerston's correspondence, still that we could not have done otherwise than
object to the marriage. This is true enough. I repeated that all that had been done in Italy
last winter had also done harm, as it was done by Lord Palmerston, who was distrusted everywhere
abroad, which Lord John regretted. Lord John said nothing would be better, for that he was
sure that Lord Palmerston would make an admirable Lord-Lieutenant, but that another thing to
be considered was the danger of making Lord Palmerston an enemy by displacing him, that Lord
Minto (who was formerly a great friend and admirer of Lord Palmerston's) had told Lady John
when she spoke to him on the subject of placing Lord Palmerston in another office, that he
(Lord Palmerston) would certainly turn against the Government if displaced. I said that might
be, but that sometimes there were great interests at stake which exceeded the danger of offending
one man, and that this was here the case; Lord John said it was very true, but that at moments
like these one of course was anxious not to do anything which could cause internal trouble.
I admitted this, but repeated my anxiety, which Lord John quite understood, though he thought
I a little overrated it, and said I was afraid that some day I should have to tell Lord John
that I could not put up with Lord Palmerston any longer, which might be very disagreeable and
awkward.

It ended by Lord John's promising to bear the subject in mind, and I must say that he took
it all just as I could wish.

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: AFFAIRS IN THE PUNJAB]

[Pageheading: HOSTILITY OF THE SIKHS]

Minute by the Governor-General of India.

30th September 1848.

... The course of events, as they have developed themselves, and long and anxious considerations
of this important subject, have finally and immovably confirmed in my mind the conviction which
the earlier events of the insurrection at Mooltan long since had founded, that there will be
no peace for India, nor any stability of Government in the Punjab, nor any release from anxiety
and costly defensive preparations on our frontier, unless the British Government, justly indignant
at the unprovoked and treacherous aggression once again committed against them by the Sikhs,
shall now effectually provide against future dangers by subverting for ever the Dynasty of
the Sings, by converting the Punjab into a British province, and by adopting the only measure
which will secure the observance of peace by the Sikhs, namely, depriving them utterly of all
the means of making war. I continue as fully convinced as ever that the establishment of a
strong, friendly, Hindoo Government in the Punjab would be the best settlement that could be
made for the interests of British India, if it could be formed. But I am convinced that such
a Government cannot be formed.[43]

    [Footnote 43: See Introductory Note for 1849, post, p.
    208.]

The Chiefs of the Punjab are utterly powerless and worthless. The great body of the nation
is adverse to all control, and in no degree submissive to the authority of those who are professedly
their rulers.

Even admitting, which I am by no means prepared to do, that the Sirdars are not treacherously
or hostilely disposed to the British Government, of what advantage, what defence to us is the
fidelity of the Chiefs, if they are confessedly unable to control the army which is as avowedly
hostile to us? That which we desire to secure is a peaceful and well-governed neighbour, and
a frontier free from alarms, nor demanding a permanent garrison of 50,000 men. If their army
are able to disturb and eager to disturb on every occasion the peace we seek to render permanent,
of what profit to us is the assumed fidelity of the Chiefs, who cannot repress their soldiers'
turbulence, or command their obedience?

I discredit altogether the assurances of the fidelity of the Chiefs on the evidence of the
facts before us....

To all these recommendations my colleagues in the Council have yielded their ready assent.

I have to the last sought to avert, or to avoid, the necessity, if it could prudently or fitly
be avoided.

The Sikh nation have forced the necessity upon us. Having resolved at once, and fully, to meet
it, I shall proceed with all speed to the frontier, and shall endeavour by every exertion,
and by all the means in my power, to carry into effect vigorously the measures on which the
Government of India has resolved, and which, in my conscience I believe, are imperatively called
for by regard to the peace of India, to the security of our Empire there, and to the happiness
of the people over whom we rule.

DALHOUSIE.

[Pageheading: PALMERSTON'S ITALIAN POLICY]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 7th October 1848.

The Queen sends Lord Palmerston's answer to her last letter, of which the Queen has sent a
copy to Lord John Russell, and encloses likewise a copy of her present answer. The partiality
of Lord Palmerston in this Italian question really surpasses all conception, and makes the
Queen very uneasy on account of the character and honour of England, and on account of the
danger to which the peace of Europe will be exposed. It is now clearly proved by Baron Wessenberg
that upon the conclusion of the Armistice with Sardinia, negotiations for peace would have
speedily been entered into, had our mediation not been offered to the King, to whom the offer
of Lombardy was too tempting not to accept, and now that promise is by fair or unfair means
to be made good. The Queen cannot see any principle in this, as the principle upon which Lord
Palmerston goes is Italian Nationality and Independence from a foreign Yoke and Tyranny. How
can the Venetian territory then be secured to Austria? and if this is done, on what ground
can Lombardy be wrung from her? It is really not safe to settle such important matters without
principle and by personal passion alone. When the French Government say they cannot control
public feeling, Lord Palmerston takes this as an unalterable fact, and as a sufficient reason
to make the Austrians give up Lombardy; when, however, the Austrian Government say they cannot
give up Lombardy on account of the feeling of the Army which had just reconquered it with their
blood and under severe privations and sufferings, Lord Palmerston flippantly tells the Austrian
Government, "if that were so, the Emperor had better abdicate and make General Radetzky Emperor."
When Charles Albert burned the whole of the suburbs of Milan to keep up the delusion that he
meant to defend the town, Lord Palmerston said nothing; and now that the Austrian Governor
has prohibited revolutionary placards on the walls, and prolonged the period at which arms
are to be surrendered, at the end of which persons concealing arms are to be tried by court-martial,
he writes to Vienna: "that this savage proclamation, which savours more of the barbarous usages
of centuries long gone by than of the spirit of the present times, must strike everybody as
a proof of the fear by which the Austrian Commander is inspired," etc., etc., etc.

Venice was to have been made over to Austria by the Armistice, and now that this has not been
done, Austria is not even to retake it, in order (as Lord Normanby says) to keep something
in hand against which Austria is to make further concessions. Is all this fair? In the meantime,
from the account of our Consul at Venice, the French agents are actively employed in intrigues
against Austria in that town, and have asked him to assist, which he refused. Lord Palmerston
merely approved his conduct, and did not write a line to Paris about it. Now the question at
issue is not even to be submitted to a Conference of European powers, but to be settled by
the French Republic and Lord Palmerston alone, Lord Normanby being the instrument who has pledged
himself over and over again for Italian independence (so called). If Austria makes peace with
Sardinia, and gives her Italian provinces separate National Institutions with a liberal constitutional
Government, who can force upon her another arrangement?

[Pageheading: GREECE]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 8th October 1848.

The Queen cannot refrain from telling Lord Palmerston what a painful impression the perusal
of a draft of his to Lord Normanby referring to the affairs of Greece has made upon her, being
so little in accordance with the calm dignity which she likes to see in all the proceedings
of the British Government; she was particularly struck by the language in which Lord Palmerston
speaks of King Otho, a Sovereign with whom she stands in friendly relations, and the asperity
against the Government of the King of the French, who is really sufficiently lowered and suffering
for the mistakes he may have committed, and that of all this a copy is to be placed in the
hands of the Foreign Minister of the French Republic, the Queen can only see with much regret.[44]

    [Footnote 44: Lord Palmerston replied that his observations on
    the two Kings lay at the very root of his argument, and were
    necessary to conciliate the present Government of France.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 10th October 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Our voyage yesterday was much saddened by a terrible accident at Spithead,
which delayed us half an hour, and which still fills us with horror. The sea was running very
high, and we were just outside what is called The Spit, when we saw a man in the water, sitting
on the keel of a boat, and we stopped, and at that moment Albert discerned many heads above
the sea, including a poor woman. The tide was running so strong that we could only stop an
instant and let a boat down, but you may imagine our horror. We waited at Gosport to hear if
the people had been saved, and we learnt that three had, two of whom by our Fairy's boat, and
that four were drowned. Very horrid indeed.

The state of Germany is dreadful, and one does feel quite ashamed about that once really so
peaceful and happy people. This ought to be the principle in all actions, private as well as
public: "Was du nicht willst, dass dir geschieht, das thu' auch einem andern nicht." ...

I must now conclude. With every good wish, ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: THE BOERS]

Earl Grey to Queen Victoria.

COLONIAL OFFICE, 25th October 1848.

Earl Grey presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and begs to inform your Majesty that no
official accounts have been received of the engagement on the Cape Frontier between your Majesty's
forces under Sir H. Smith and the insurgent Dutch farmers, of which an account is published
in the newspapers.[45] Lord Grey has, however, seen a private letter, which mentions, in addition
to what is stated in the Government notice in the Cape newspapers, that Sir Harry Smith exposed
himself very much, and was slightly wounded; most fortunately, he was merely grazed in the
leg; his horse was also struck by a bullet in the nose. A very large proportion of those who
were hit by the fire of the rebels were officers, who appear to have been particularly aimed at.

    [Footnote 45: In July, Pretorius, the Boer leader, had in
    consequence of the British annexation of territory, expelled
    the British Resident from Bloemfontein. See Introductory
    Note, ante, p. 142. Sir Harry Smith decisively defeated the
    Boers on the 29th of August.]

Queen Victoria to Earl Grey.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 26th October 1848.

The Queen has received Lord Grey's letter, and is glad to hear that Sir H. Smith's wound was
not of a serious nature. The loss of so many officers, the Queen is certain, proceeds from
their wearing a blue coat whilst the men are in scarlet; the Austrians lost a great proportion
of officers in Italy from a similar difference of dress.

As to the Medal for Major Edwardes, the Queen did not approve but disapprove the step, and
wished the Bath to be given instead, which has been done. The medals for troops in general
(given by the East India Company) are a new and doubtful thing, and now it is proposed to reward
even a special case of personal distinction by the Company's conferring a mark of honour. Lord
Grey will agree with the Queen that it will be better not to establish two fountains of honour
in the Realm. If the East India Company wish to mark their approbation, perhaps they might
send Major Edwardes a fine sword or something of that kind.

[Pageheading: GOVERNORSHIP OF GIBRALTAR]

Earl Grey to Queen Victoria.

COLONIAL OFFICE, 26th October 1848. Lord Fitzroy Somerset happened to be here when it arrived,
and Lord Grey read to him that part of it which relates to the danger occasioned to officers
in action from wearing a dress of a different colour from that of the men. Lord Fitzroy observed
that although there can be no doubt of the objection to the blue coats worn by officers, in
this instance their having suffered so much cannot be attributed to that cause, as it appears
that all the officers who were wounded but one, belonged to regiments (the Rifle Battalion
or the Cape Mounted Rifles) in which the officers are dressed in the same colour as the men....

Lord Grey begs to submit to your Majesty that the usual time for relieving the present Governor
of Gibraltar is now come, and that he thinks it very desirable to appoint a successor to Sir
Robert Wilson, who now fills that situation. It appears to Lord Grey that, considering the
nature of the appointment and also the great advantage which would result from affording greater
encouragement to the officers serving under the Ordnance, it would be very proper to confer
this government upon a General Officer belonging to the Royal Artillery or Engineers. There
is some difficulty in making a selection from the officers of these Corps, because, from their
retiring only by seniority, they seldom attain the rank of General Officer while they are still
in possession of sufficient strength and activity for employment. Lord Grey, however, believes
from the information he has been able to obtain, that Sir Robert Gardiner might, with advantage,
be appointed to this command, which he therefore begs leave to recommend to your Majesty to
confer upon him. Lord Grey has had no communication with Sir R. Gardiner, and is entirely ignorant
whether he would accept this employment.[46]

    [Footnote 46: Sir Robert Gardiner, K.C.B.. was appointed
    Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Gibraltar on the 21st of
    November, and held that post till 1855.]

[Pageheading: ITALY AND AUSTRIA]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 27th October 1848.

The Queen has not yet acknowledged the receipt of Lord John Russell's communication of the
views of the Cabinet on the Italian affairs.[47] She is very glad that the Cabinet should have
considered this important question, and that she should have received an assurance "that she
will not be advised to have recourse to forcible intervention." The Queen understands this
principle to apply to Lombardy as well as to Sicily, and that, of course, "forcible intervention"
will not only be avoided as to British means, but likewise as to French means, with British
consent and concurrence. Though Lord John Russell does not enter so much into particulars with
regard to the opinions of the Members of the Cabinet as the Queen might have wished, she infers
from the proposition that Lombardy should be constituted separately under an Archduke, that
the idea of making it over to the King of Sardinia is finally abandoned.

    [Footnote 47: Lord John had written to the effect that, while
    no definite decision had been arrived at with regard to Italy,
    it was thought by the Cabinet that every means should be used
    to induce Austria to give up Lombardy to an Austrian Prince,
    as most conformable to the interests of Austria herself. The
    question of Sicily (he added) was more difficult, but if no
    agreement could be arrived at by amicable negotiation, the
    Cabinet would not be disposed to advise the Queen to have
    recourse to forcible intervention.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

It will probably be necessary to send troops to India, who will then be no longer chargeable
to this country. But Lord John Russell thinks it his duty to state that however unwilling he
may be to diminish the Military and Naval force, it is still more essential to keep our income
within our expenditure.

The whole matter will be under the consideration of the Cabinet next week.

The approaching election of a President in France must decide the question of the future Government
of France. Louis Bonaparte may probably play the part of Richard Cromwell.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 21st November 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I write to thank you for your kind letter of the 18th on your god-daughter's
eighth birthday! It does seem like an incredible dream that Vicky should already be so old!
She is very happy with all her gifts.

In Vienna things are much better. Louis Napoleon's election seems certain, and I own I wish
for it as I think it will lead to something else.

You will grieve to hear that our good, dear, old friend Melbourne is dying; there is no hope,
and I enclose a pretty letter of Lady Beauvale's,[48] which I think will interest you, and
which I beg you to return.

We go to-morrow for four weeks to our dear, peaceful Osborne.

I will now take my leave. Begging you to believe me ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 48: See Greville's appreciative description of Lady
    Beauvale in his Journal for the 30th of January 1853.]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

BROCKET HALL, 23rd November 1848.

Viscount Palmerston is here engaged in the melancholy occupation of watching the gradual extinction
of the lamp of life of one who was not more distinguished by his brilliant talents, his warm
affections, and his first-rate understanding, than by those sentiments of attachment to your
Majesty which rendered him the most devoted subject who ever had the honour to serve a Sovereign.

[Pageheading: DEATH OF LORD MELBOURNE]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

BROCKET HALL, 25th November 1848.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has to state that Viscount
Melbourne was released from further suffering at about six o'clock yesterday afternoon. His
bodily strength had been rapidly declining during the last few days, and it was only at intervals
that he retained any degree of apparent consciousness. The last transition took place quietly
and with almost imperceptible gradation.

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria. The election of a President in France is so completely
absorbing attention that any mark of regard to the Duke of Nemours may well pass unnoticed.

Lord John Russell had the honour of seeing Louis Philippe in this house on Friday. He was in
much better spirits, owing to the convalescence of the Queen; but the illness has been a very
serious one.

Lord John Russell had understood that the affairs of property belonging to the Orleans family
were arranged, and that Louis Philippe would ultimately be possessed of more than a million
sterling.

Louis Philippe expressed his opinion in favour of Louis Bonaparte as a candidate for the Presidency.
He feels confident that France cannot go to war on account of the state of her finances.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 21th November 1848.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Thank God! that the news from Berlin are better. It is to be hoped that
this may have a good effect elsewhere.

In France there ought really to be a Monarchy before long, qui que ce soit.

Our poor old friend Melbourne died on the 24th. I sincerely regret him, for he was truly attached
to me, and though not a firm Minister he was a noble, kind-hearted, generous being. Poor Lord
Beauvale and Lady Palmerston feel it very much. I wish it might soften the caro sposo of the
latter-named person.

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: LETTER FROM THE POPE]

Pope Pius IX. to Queen Victoria.[49]

To the Most Serene and Potent Sovereign Victoria, the Illustrious Queen of England, Pius Papa
Nonus.

Most Serene and Most Potent Queen, Greeting! Your Royal Majesty has already learned what a
subversion of public affairs has taken place at Rome, and what utterly unheard-of violence
was, on the 16th of the late month of November, offered to us in our very Palace of the Quirinal,
in consequence of a nefarious conspiracy of abandoned and most turbulent men. Hence, in order
to avoid more violent commotions and more serious dangers, as likewise for the purpose of freely
performing the functions of our apostolic Ministry, we, not without the deepest and most heartfelt
sorrow, have been constrained to depart for a time from our Holy City, and from the whole state
of our pontifical dominions; and in the meanwhile we come as far as Gaëta, where, as soon as
we had arrived, our first care was to declare to our subjects the sentiments of our mind and
will, by a public edict, a copy of which we transmit to your Royal Majesty, together with these
our letters. Without doubt, through your own wisdom, you will perfectly understand, Most Serene
and Potent Sovereign, that amongst the other most cruel difficulties by which we are pressed,
we must be chiefly solicitous concerning those subject to our temporal rule and the rights
and possessions of the Roman Church, which, moreover, your august Uncle and the other Princes
of Europe protected with so much zeal. But we do not in the least doubt that, in conformity
with your exalted magnanimity, your justice, and your known desire to maintain order in public
affairs, you will by no means suffer this same to be wanting to us at this most lamentable
time. Trusting indeed in this hope, we do not cease, in the humility and affliction of our
heart, from earnestly beseeching God, the All Good and All Great, that He may heap upon your
Royal Majesty and your whole House all true and solid prosperity, and that He may unite you
with us in perfect charity.

Given at Gaëta, the 4th day of December 1848, in the third year of our Pontificate.

PIUS PP. IX.[50]

    [Footnote 49: Official translation.]

    [Footnote 50: This letter was suitably acknowledged in general
    terms. See p. 210.]

[Pageheading: LOUIS NAPOLEON]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 13th December 1848.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--Pray accept my warmest and best wishes for many, many happy returns of your
birthday--a day so dear to so many, and which will be hailed with such joy in Belgium. You
have indeed reason to look with satisfaction on all around you, though it is a painful thing
to think how many have been ruined and made miserable since this day twelvemonths. Let us hope
that another year may bring many things round again.

The weather is beautiful, and I wish much we could fly over to pay our respects to you on your
dear birthday.

The papers are just come, and I see there is no doubt of Louis Napoleon's election, which I
am very glad of, as it is a sign of better times. But that one should have to wish for him
is really wonderful.

Now good-bye, dearest Uncle. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 19th December 1848.

MY DEAREST, KINDEST UNCLE,--Your dear letter, full of interesting topics, which I received
yesterday, gave me great pleasure, and I thank you much for it. The success of Louis Napoleon[51]
is an extraordinary event, but valuable as a universal condemnation of the Republic since February.

It will, however, perhaps be more difficult to get rid of him again than one at first may imagine.
Nemours thinks it better that none of themselves should be called into action for some time
to come. I fear that he feels now that they ought to have foreseen the dangers in February,
and ought not to have yielded; when I said to him that the Pope had declared that he would
never quit Rome, and did so do the very next day, he said: "Ah! mon Dieu, on se laisse entraîner
dans ces moments."

WINDSOR CASTLE, 22nd December 1848.

The Queen has been waiting to receive an answer from Lord John Russell upon her last letter,
and has therefore delayed sending the enclosed letter from Lord Palmerston.[52] But lest any
further delay might cause future inconvenience, she sends it now without having received Lord
John's answer. The Queen is sure Lord John will feel that neither Lord Palmerston nor Lord
Normanby have shown a proper regard for the Queen's wishes and opinion in this matter. Lord
Normanby's Despatch shows that the step to be taken with reference to an Ambassador to be sent
here is avowedly for the purpose of controlling the future action of the Queen's Government,
and to oblige her to keep a permanent Ambassador at Paris in the person of Lord Normanby. It
is not very delicate in Lord Normanby to convey such a message, nor in Lord Palmerston to urge
it so eagerly. M. de Beaumont's departure from this country without taking leave of the Queen
was neither very becoming.

The Queen has already, on Lord Palmerston's account, received two public affronts: the one
by her Minister in Spain having been sent out of that country,[53] the other now, by the new
Emperor of Austria not announcing to her by special mission his accession to the Throne, which
he did to all other Sovereigns, avowedly, as it appears, to mark the indignation of Austria
at the inimical proceedings of the British Foreign Secretary. The Queen does not think that,
in the face of such slurs, the dignity of England will be vindicated by a race between her
representative and that of Spain, who is to present his credentials first to the new President
of the French Republic, which Lord Palmerston considers of such importance as to render an
immediate decision indispensable.

Should Lord John think that we cannot do less now for Louis Napoleon than has been done in
the case of General Cavaignac, the Queen will not object to renewing Lord Normanby's credentials
as Ambassador-Extraordinary on a special mission.

    [Footnote 52: Lord Palmerston had written to say that
    Lord Normanby's credentials were provisional, and regular
    credentials would become necessary. The new French Government
    were sending Ambassadors to Vienna, Rome, and other capitals,
    which in return would send Ambassadors to Paris, so that it
    would be injurious for this country's representative to be of
    inferior diplomatic rank. "It would," he wrote subsequently,
    "be derogatory to the dignity of your Majesty, and to the
    character of your Majesty's Government if, in the present
    state of things between the British and Spanish Governments
    the Spanish Ambassador should, by a dilatoriness on the part
    of your Majesty's Government, be allowed to raise a question
    about precedence with your Majesty's representative at Paris;
    it would be very inconvenient if that question were decided
    unfavourably to your Majesty's representative, and very
    undesirable that he should appear to be under obligation to
    the French Government for a decision in his favour."]

    [Footnote 53: See ante, p. 175.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER XVIII

The opening of Parliament (1849) was noteworthy for the appearance of Mr Disraeli as leader
of the Opposition in the House of Commons, in place of Lord George Bentinck, who had died suddenly
in the recess; the Peelites, though influential, were numerically few, and they continued by
their support to maintain the Whigs in office, the principal measure of the session being the
Act for the repeal of the Navigation Laws, a natural corollary to Peel's free trade policy.
A Royal visit was paid to Ireland in August, and at Cork, Waterford, Dublin, and Belfast, the
Queen and Prince were received with great enthusiasm.

Abroad, the cause of United Italy suffered a severe check. The Sicilian revolt came to an end,
and Austrian ascendency was re-established in Northern Italy. King Charles Albert was defeated
at Novara, and abdicated in favour of his son, Victor Emmanuel. The Pope, who had fled from
Rome in disguise, in November 1848, and was living at Gaëta, was now under the protection of
Austria and France, and General Oudinot occupied the Papal city on his behalf in June. Austrian
influence restored Tuscany, Parma, and Modena to their rulers, and in Central Europe operated
to prevent the acceptance by the King of Prussia of the Imperial Crown of Germany. Hungary,
in consequence of the help rendered to the Viennese insurrectionists in 1848, was reduced to
submission, but only with Russian co-operation. Heavy retribution was inflicted on the Hungarians;
Kossuth and other revolutionaries fled to Turkey, the Russian and Austrian Governments unsuccessfully
demanding their extradition.

The British operations against the Sikhs were brought to a successful termination; the Commander-in-Chief,
Lord Gough, with inferior numbers, had engaged the enemy at Chillianwalla, with indecisive
and virtually unfavourable results, and Sir Charles Napier was sent out to supersede him. Mooltan,
where the outrage of the previous year had taken place, had been besieged, and fell on the
22nd of January. Dalhousie had established himself at Ferozepore. A week or two later the Sikhs
and Afghans were overwhelmingly defeated at Gujerat, and on the 29th of March the Punjab was
incorporated in the British Empire; the "Koh-i-noor" was, in token of submission, presented
by the Maharajah to the Queen. Lord Dalhousie received a Marquisate, and the thanks of both
Houses of Parliament were voted to all concerned.

CHAPTER XVIII

1849

Memorandum on Matters connected with the Form of addressing the Pope in Answer to his Letter
to Her Majesty of 4th December 1848.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 5th January 1849.

The accompanying draft of answer to the letter which the Pope addressed to Her Majesty from
Gaëta on the 4th of December is in the same form as letters which were written to Pope Pius
VII. by George the Fourth while Prince Regent, and after he came to the Throne. They address
the Pope as "Most Eminent Sir," style him "Your Holiness," and finish with the mere signature
after the date of the conclusion of the letter. Copies of those letters are annexed.

Other forms of writing Royal letters are:--

1st. Commencing "Sir my Brother" (or "Sir my Cousin," etc., as the case may be), and ending thus:

  "Sir my Brother,
  Your Majesty's
  Good Sister."

This is the form used between Sovereign and Sovereign.

2nd. Commencing with the Queen's titles. In these letters the plural "we" and "our" are employed
instead of "I" and "my," and the letters terminate thus:--

  "Your Good Friend,
  ...."

This form is now used almost exclusively for Royal letters to Republics.

In the State Paper Office there is, with only one exception, no record of any letter from a
Sovereign of England to the Pope from the time of Henry VIII., when the State Paper Office
records commence. The single exception is an original letter from Queen Mary in 1555 to Pope
Paul IV. It seems that when the time of her expected confinement drew nigh, she caused letters
to be prepared announcing the birth of a son, and signed them in anticipation of the event.
When no birth took place, the letters were of course not sent off; but they have been preserved
to the present day, and among them is the letter to the Pope. The accompanying paper contains
a copy of the beginning and conclusion of it.

There is no trace in the State Paper Office of any letter of credence having been given by
James II. to Lord Castlemaine in 1685. The correspondence of the reign of James II. is, however,
very defective, and much of it must either have been suppressed or have got into private hands.

[Pageheading: REPLY TO THE POPE]

Draft] Queen Victoria to Pope Pius IX.[1]

MOST EMINENT SIR,--I have received the letter which your Holiness addressed to me from Gaëta
on the 4th of December last, and in which you acquaint me that in consequence of the violent
proceedings of certain of your subjects, you had felt yourself obliged to depart from Rome,
and for a time to quit your dominions. I assure your Holiness that I have been deeply pained
at the intelligence of the events to which your letter refers, and that I do the fullest justice
to the motives which induced your Holiness to withdraw for a time from your capital. Your Holiness
has given so many proofs of being animated by a sincere desire to improve the condition of
the people whom, under Divine Providence, you have been chosen to govern, and the clemency
of your heart and the rectitude of your intentions are so well known and so truly appreciated,
that I cannot but hope that the trials which you have experienced in consequence of popular
commotion will speedily come to an end, and will be succeeded by a cordial, good understanding
between your Holiness and the Roman people. I request your Holiness to believe that it would
afford me real pleasure to be able in any degree to contribute to a result so much to be desired;
and I am happy in having this opportunity of assuring you of my sincere friendship, and of
the unfeigned respect and esteem which I entertain for your person and character.

Given at Windsor Castle the [    ] day of January 1849.

    [Footnote 1: See p. 204.]

[Pageheading: LETTER FROM PRINCE LOUIS NAPOLEON]

The President of the French Republic to Queen Victoria.

ELYSÉE NATIONAL, le 22 Janvier 1849.

TRÈS CHÈRE ET GRANDE AMIE,--Une de mes premières pensées lorsque le v[oe]u de la nation Française
m'appela au pouvoir fut de faire part à votre Majesté de mon avènement et des sentiments que
j'apportais dans ma nouvelle position.

Des circonstances particulières ont retardé le départ de l'ambassadeur qui devait porter ma
lettre; mais aujourd'hui que l'Amiral Cécile se rend à Londres je désire exprimer à votre Majesté
la respectueuse sympathie que j'ai toujours éprouvée pour sa personne; je désire surtout lui
dire combien je suis reconnaissant de la généreuse hospitalité qu'elle m'a donnée dans ses
états lorsque j'étais fugitif ou proscrit et combien je serais heureux si ce souvenir pouvait
servir à resserrer les liens qui unissent les gouvernements et les peuples de nos deux pays.

Je prie votre Majesté de croire à mes sentiments. Votre ami,

LOUIS NAPOLÉON BONAPARTE.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN AND PALMERSTON]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 22nd January 1849.

Lord John Russell presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and would now wish to consult Lord
Lansdowne on the propriety of offering to Lord Palmerston to exchange the Foreign Office for
the Lord-Lieutenancy of Ireland.[2]

As Lord John Russell has always approved in the main of the foreign policy of Lord Palmerston,
he could only make this offering in a mode honourable to Lord Palmerston--that is to say, for
instance, by offering him at the same time an English Earldom, or an English Barony with the
Garter. Nor could he proceed in the matter without Lord Lansdowne's concurrence.

    [Footnote 2: Hostilities were in progress between the Sicilian
    insurgents and their Sovereign. An agent for the former
    came to England to purchase arms, but was informed by the
    contractor to whom he applied that the whole of his stock had
    been pledged to the Ordnance Office. Lord Palmerston, without
    consulting the Cabinet, allowed this stock to be transferred
    to the insurgents.

The Queen has just received Lord John Russell's letter and enclosures, the contents of which
have deeply grieved her, as the honour of her Government has always been nearest to her heart.
She feels deeply the humiliation to have to make an apology to the Government of Naples, which
stands so very low in public estimation, and she naturally dreads the effect this disclosure
about the guns will have in the world, when she considers how many accusations have been brought
against the good faith of this country latterly by many different Governments. Of course they
will all consider their suspicions and accusations, however absurd they may have been, as justified
and proved.

The Queen supposes that the proposition Lord John makes to her about moving Lord Palmerston
to Ireland is the result of his conviction that after this disclosure it will be no longer
to the advantage of the public service to leave the direction of the Foreign Affairs in these
critical times in Lord Palmerston's hands. The Queen will be anxious to see Lord John upon
this subject. All she wishes for is, that matters may be so managed as to reflect the least
possible discredit upon the Government and Lord Palmerston himself.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--We are well. All went off extremely well on Thursday, but the Government
must expect difficulties upon their (very doubtful) Foreign Policy. I own I do not feel reassured
about peace. Italy and the Pope, etc., are very ticklish subjects.

Everybody says Louis Napoleon has behaved extremely well in the last crisis--full of courage
and energy, and they say that he is decidedly straightforward, which is not to be despised.
I will not admit that the Gemüthlichkeit ist für immer begraben in Germany; it will surely
return when this madness is over, but how soon no one can tell. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to the Earl of Dalhousie.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 6th February 1849.

The Queen has not yet thanked Lord Dalhousie for his long and interesting letter which she
received in the summer. Since that period many important events have taken place in India,
and the last news have naturally made the Queen feel very anxious. She deeply laments the loss
of General Cureton and Colonel Havelock, officers who will not be easily replaced. The Queen
thinks that Lord Dalhousie has throughout acted most judiciously and has thwarted more mischief
being done. She will abstain from remarking upon the conduct of the Commander-in-Chief, as
she knows that the Duke of Wellington has written fully to Lord Dalhousie on this painful subject.[3]
The Queen concludes with expressing her hopes that Lord and Lady Dalhousie are in good health,
and with the Prince's kindest remembrances to Lord Dalhousie.

    [Footnote 3: See Introductory Note for the year, ante, p.
    208.]

[Pageheading: STATE OF EUROPE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 10th February 1849.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I have to offer my most affectionate thanks for your dear letter of the
6th. The state of the Queen seems better, though I fear not so solidly as to be beyond mischief;
but the improvement is real, and will act as a moral support. They have been severely tried,
those poor exiles, and Heaven knows what is still in store for them. I don't think that in
Italy there will be war. The French cannot think of it for some months, probably not before
June or July, and the Italians cannot make it alone without being licked; the better informed
know that. The Pope ought to be replaced on his seat for the sake of every one; and his ultra-Liberal
policy entitles him to be supported by all Governments and by all right-minded people.

Louis Bonaparte has not ill-behaved, it seems; negatively he might have done much harm. The
position continues to be abominable. There is for every one an absence d'avenir which ruins
everything and everybody--that is the real difficulty.

Die Gemüthlichkeit in Germany was the consequence of its political existence these last thousand
years; that is now all going to ruin, and the Gemüthlichkeit will be as little found again
que l'urbanité Française so much talked of formerly and now unknown.

This part of February puts me always in mind of my dear little séjour with you in 1841. How
far that period is now, though but eight years from us; the very features of everything changed,
I fear for ever, and not for the better.... Now I must conclude, and remain ever, my dearest
Victoria, your truly devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: LOUIS NAPOLEON.]

Memorandum by Queen Victoria.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 19th February 1849.

Admiral Cécile, who dined here for the first time after the presentation of his credentials
as Ambassador from the French Republic, with whom I spoke for some time after dinner, said:
"Nous en avons fait de tristes expériences en France," but that he hoped "que les choses s'amélioraient";
that the Government was very firm and decided, and determined not to allow order to be disturbed;
"Paris a maintenant fait quatre Révolutions que la France a subies; votre Majesté sait qui
a proclamé la République au mois de Février? Une centaine de coquins! Personne s'en doutait,
et cependant la France s'y est soumise!" That the Government was however determined, and so
were all the Departments, that this should never happen again; no doubt the danger from the
Socialists was great, all over the world; that that was the real danger, and that they would
readily make another attempt like the fearful one in June (the result of which for three days
was uncertain), but that they had not the power; that he was continually impressing upon all
his friends in France the necessity of supporting whatever form of Government there was whose
object was the maintenance of order, and to unite "contre cet ennemi commun." The President,
he continued, had risen amazingly in the opinion of every one by his firmness, courage, and
determination--which he had shown in those critical days a fortnight or three weeks ago--and
that in these two months he had acquired "une grande aptitude pour les affaires; tout le monde
est étonné, parce que personne ne s'y attendait." He spoke with great delight of Belgium--and
how it had stood the shock of the events in France--and also of England. Italy, he considered,
was by far the greatest object of danger.

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: GAELIC AND WELSH]

Queen Victoria to the Marquis of Lansdowne.

OSBORNE, 3rd March 1849.

The Queen sends Lord Lansdowne the book[4] she mentioned to him. It is an extraordinary production
for people of the working classes, and there are a great many sound and good observations in
it on education; the observations on the deficiency in the religious instruction and in the
preaching the Queen thinks are particularly true. It likewise shows a lofty and enlarged view
of education which is often overlooked.

The Queen takes this occasion of repeating her hope that Gaelic will be taught in future in
the Highland schools, as well as English, as it is really a great mistake that the people should
be constantly talking a language which they often cannot read and generally not write. Being
very partial to her loyal and good Highlanders, the Queen takes much interest in what she thinks
will tend more than anything to keep up their simplicity of character, which she considers
a great merit in these days.

The Queen thinks equally that Welsh should be taught in Wales as well as English.[5]

    [Footnote 4: This book was probably Popular Education, as
    regards Juvenile Delinquency, by Thos. Bullock, 1849.]

    [Footnote 5: Lord Lansdowne, in his reply, undertook "to
    combine instruction in the Gaelic with the English language in
    the Highland as well as the Welsh schools, and to have a view
    to it in the choice of Inspectors."]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 6th March 1849.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Your dear letter reached me yesterday, and I thank you warmly for it. I
wish you could be here, for I never remember finer weather than we have had since we came here;
perfect summer, and so sweet, so enjoyable, and then with all the pleasures and beauties of
Spring you have that beautiful sea--so blue and smooth as it has been these three days. If
we have no mountains to boast of, we have the sea, which is ever enjoyable. We have camelias
which have stood out two winters covered with red flowers, and scarlet rhododendrons in brilliant
bloom. Does this not sound tempting? It seems almost wrong to be at home, and Albert really
hardly is.

I wish you joy of your twenty-four foxes. If there was a black one amongst them I should beg
for one, as the skin you sent me last year was not a black one.

The news from India are very distressing, and make one very anxious, but Sir Charles Napier
is instantly to be sent out to supersede Lord Gough, and he is so well versed in Indian tactics
that we may look with safety to the future after his arrival.

The Italian Question remains very complicated, and the German one a very perplexing, sad one.
Prussia must protect the poor Princes and put herself at the head, else there is no hope. Austria
should behave better, and not oppose the consolidation of a central Power, else I know not
what is to become of poor Germany.

Pray use your influence to prevent more fatal mischief.

Now adieu, dearest Uncle. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 16th March 1849.

The debate has been a remarkable one, and the division shows tolerably well the strength of
parties. The Protectionists, animated by the cry of agricultural distress, are disposed to
use their power to the utmost. Mr Disraeli shows himself a much abler and less passionate leader
than Lord George Bentinck.

On the other hand, the friends of Sir Robert Peel and the party of Mr Cobden unite with the
Government in resisting the Protectionist party. The House of Commons thus gives a majority,
which, though not compact, is decided at once against the extreme Tory and the extreme Radical
party. With such a House of Commons the great interests of the Throne and the Constitution
are safe. An abrupt dissolution would put everything to hazard.

    [Footnote 6: On Mr Disraeli's motion for payment of the half
    of local rates by the Treasury, which was defeated by 280 to
    189.]

[Pageheading: END OF THE SIKH WAR]

[Pageheading: MRS GEORGE LAWRENCE]

The Earl of Dalhousie to Queen Victoria.

CAMP, FEROZEPORE, 24th March 1849.

The Governor-General presents his most humble duty to your Majesty, and has the honour of acknowledging
the receipt of the letter which your Majesty most graciously addressed to him on the 5th of
February.

He is deeply sensible of your Majesty's goodness, and most grateful for the expression of approbation
which it has conveyed.

The Governor-General is not without fear that he may have intruded too often of late upon your
Majesty's time. But he is so satisfied of the extreme pleasure which your Majesty would experience
on learning that the prisoners who were in the hands of the Sikhs, and especially the ladies
and children, were once again safe in the British camp, that he would have ventured to convey
to your Majesty that intelligence, even though he had not been able to add to it--as happily
he can--the announcement of the surrender of the whole Khalsa army, and the end of the war
with the Sikhs.

Major-General Gilbert pushed on rapidly in pursuit of the Sikhs, who were a few marches in
front of him, carrying off our prisoners with them.

At Rawul Pindee, half-way between the Jhelum and Attock, the Sikh troops, as we have since
heard, would go no further. They received no pay, they were starving, they had been beaten
and were disheartened; and so they surrendered.

All the prisoners were brought safe into our camp. Forty-one pieces of artillery were given
up. Chuttur Singh and Shere Singh, with all the Sirdars, delivered their swords to General
Gilbert in the presence of his officers; and the remains of the Sikh army, 16,000 strong, were
marched into camp, by 1000 at a time, and laid down their arms as they passed between the lines
of the British troops.

Your Majesty may well imagine the pride with which British Officers looked on such a scene,
and witnessed this absolute subjection and humiliation of so powerful an enemy.

How deeply the humiliation was felt by the Sikhs themselves may be judged by the report which
the officers who were present have made, that many of them, and especially the grim old Khalsas
of Runjeet's time, exclaimed as they threw their arms down upon the heap: "This day Runjeet
Singh has died!"

Upwards of 20,000 stands of arms were taken in the hills. Vast quantities were gathered after
the flight of the Sikhs from Gujerat. As a further precaution, the Governor-General has ordered
a disarming of the Sikhs throughout the Eastern Doabs, while they are yet cast down and afraid
of punishment. He trusts that these measures may all tend to ensure the continuance of peace.

The Sirdars will arrive at Lahore to-day, where they will await the determination of their
future places of residence. The officers who were prisoners have also reached Lahore, together
with Mrs George Lawrence and her children.

It is impossible to speak too highly of the admirable spirit which this lady has displayed
during many months of very arduous trial.

By the kindness of others, the Governor-General has had the opportunity of seeing constantly
the little notes which were secretly despatched by her from her prison. The gallant heart she
kept up under it all, the cheerful face she put upon it, and the unrepining patience with which
she bore the privations of captivity and the dangers which it threatened to her children, her
husband, and herself, must command the highest respect and make one proud of one's countrywomen.

General Gilbert, by the latest intelligence, had seized the fort of Attock, had crossed the
Indus, and was advancing on Peshawur, whither the Afghans had retired.

By next mail the Governor-General trusts that he will be able to announce that every enemy
has been swept away by your Majesty's Armies, and that the Afghans have either been crushed
like the Sikhs or have fled to Cabul again.

He has the honour to subscribe himself, your Majesty's most obedient, most humble and very
faithful Subject and Servant,

DALHOUSIE.

[Pageheading: THE KING OF SARDINIA]

The King of Sardinia (Victor Emanuel) to Queen Victoria.

TURIN, le 30 Mars 1849.

MA TRÈS CHÈRE S[OE]UR,--La participation officielle que je m'empresse de vous donner de mon
avènement au trône m'offre une occasion que je suis heureux de saisir pour vous exprimer dans
une lettre de ma main les sentiments de ma vive gratitude pour l'affection dont ma maison a
reçu des preuves marquantes et réitérées de votre part, comme pour le bienveillant intérêt
que votre Gouvernement a témoigné à ce pays particulièrement dans les graves événements qui
ont eu lieu pendant cette dernière année.

Je vous prie d'être persuadée que rien n'est plus sincère que la reconnaissance que j'en conserve,
et de me laisser nourrir la confiance que je puis compter sur la continuation de ces dispositions
si aimables.

En vous renouvelant les sentiments d'amitié la plus parfaite, je suis, votre très cher Frère,

VICTOR EMANUEL.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 10th April 1849.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--You will, I am sure, share our joy at Ernest's wonderful success at Eckerforde.[7]
It is a marvellous piece of good fortune pour son baptême de feu, but it alarmed and agitated
us all to think that he might have been wounded, to say the least, for he had his horse killed
under him. At all events, he has done honour to the poor race to which he belongs, and it makes
us both very happy. I think it will tend decidedly to shorten the war. Poor dear Alexandrine!
in what anxiety she will have been.

The victory of Novara[8] seems to have been one of the hardest fought and most brilliant battles
known for years and years, and old Radetzky says that he must name every individual if he was
to do justice to officers and men. But the loss was very severe. The regiment of Kinsky lost
twenty-four officers! The Archduke Albert distinguished himself exceedingly, which is worthy
of his noble father. I could work myself up to a great excitement about these exploits, for
there is nothing I admire more than great military exploits and daring.

    [Footnote 7: In this engagement with the Danes, arising out
    of the Schleswig-Holstein dispute, Prince Ernest greatly
    distinguished himself.]

    [Footnote 8: In which Marshal Radetzky defeated the
    Piedmontese.]

[Pageheading: THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON]

Queen Victoria to the Duke of Wellington.

1st May 1849.

The Queen cannot let this day pass without offering to the Duke of Wellington her warmest and
sincerest wishes for many happy returns of this day. She hopes the Duke will place the accompanying
trifle on his table, and that it will recall to his mind one who ever reflects with gratitude
on the services he has rendered and always does render to his Sovereign and his country.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 8th May 1849.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Alas! poor Germany, I am wretched about her; those news from Dresden are
very distressing.[9] Really with such an excellent man as the poor King, it is too wicked to
do what they have done. If only some sort of arrangement could be made; then afterwards there
might be modifications, both in the Constitution, etc., for that Constitution never will work well.

Our Navigation Laws debate in the House of Lords began last night, and is to be concluded to-night.
There seems to be almost a certainty that there will be a majority, though a very small one,
and the danger of course exists that any accident may turn it the other way.

Knowing your esteem for our worthy friend, Sir Robert Peel, you will, I am sure, be glad to
hear that his second son, Frederick,[10] made such a beautiful speech--his maiden speech--in
the House of Commons last night; he was complimented by every one, and Sir Robert was delighted.
I am so glad for him, and also rejoice to see that there is a young man who promises to be
of use hereafter to his country.

Albert is again gone to lay a first stone. It is a delight to hear people speak of the good
he does by always saying and doing the right thing....

    [Footnote 9: The King of Prussia, finding Saxony, Bavaria,
    Würtemberg, and Hanover opposed to the ascendency of Prussia
    in the Confederation, declined the Imperial Crown of Germany;
    fresh disturbances thereupon ensued, and at Dresden, the King
    of Saxony had to take refuge in a fortress.]

    [Footnote 10: Afterwards the Right Hon. Sir Frederick Peel,
    who died in 1906.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 22nd May 1849.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I could not write to you yesterday, my time having been so entirely taken
up by kind visitors, etc., and I trust you will forgive these hurried lines written just before
our departure for Osborne.[11] I hope that you will not have been alarmed by the account of
the occurrence which took place on Saturday, and which I can assure you did not alarm me at
all. This time it is quite clear that it was a wanton and wicked wish merely to frighten, which
is very wrong, and will be tried and punished as a misdemeanour. The account in the Times is
quite correct. The indignation, loyalty, and affection this act has called forth is very gratifying
and touching.

Alice gives a very good account of it, and Lenchen[12] even says, "Man shot, tried to shoot
dear Mamma, must be punished." They, Affie, and Miss Macdonald were with me. Albert was riding,
and had just returned before me. Augustus and Clém had left us just two hours before....

Many thanks for your kind letter of the 19th. What a state Germany is in!--I mean Baden, but
I hope that this violent crisis may lead to good.

I must conclude. Ever your truly devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 11: The Queen, while driving down Constitution Hill,
    was fired at by one William Hamilton, the pistol being charged
    only with powder. He was tried under the Act of 1842, and
    sentenced to seven years' transportation.]

    [Footnote 12: Princess Helena (now Princess Christian), born
    25th May 1846.]

[Pageheading: ANNEXATION OF THE PUNJAB]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 26th May 1849.

The Queen has to say, in answer to Lord John Russell's communication respecting India, that
she quite approves the annexation of the Punjab, and is pleased to find that the Government
concur in this view. The elevation of Lord Dalhousie to a Marquisate is well deserved, and
almost the only thing that can be offered him as a reward for his services; but considering
his want of fortune, the Queen thinks that it should be ascertained in the first instance whether
the increase of rank will be convenient to him. Lord Gough's elevation to the dignity of Viscount
has the Queen's sanction.

[Pageheading: FOREIGN OFFICE BUSINESS]

Lord John Russell to the Prince Albert.

CHESHAM PLACE, 19th June 1849.

SIR,--I have spoken to Lord Palmerston respecting the draft to Mr Buchanan.[13]

It appears that he converted it into a private letter, as I suggested, but he thought fit to
place it on record, as it contained information derived from authentic sources, and of importance.

It appears the drafts are still sent to the Queen at the same time as to me, so that my remarks
or corrections, or even the cancelling of a despatch, as not infrequently happens, may take
effect after the Queen's pleasure has been taken.

This appears to me an inconvenient course.

Lord Palmerston alleges that as 28,000 despatches were received and sent last year, much expedition
is required; but he professes himself ready to send the despatches to me in the first instance,
if the Queen should desire it.

It appears to me that all our despatches ought to be thoroughly considered, but that Her Majesty
should give every facility to the transaction of business by attending to the drafts as soon
as possible after their arrival.

I would suggest therefore that the drafts should have my concurrence before they are submitted
to the Queen, and in case of any material change, that I should write to apprise Her Majesty
of my views, and, if necessary, submit my reasons, I have the honour to be, your Royal Highness's
most obedient Servant,

J. RUSSELL.

    [Footnote 13: Mr (afterwards Sir) Andrew Buchanan (1807-1882),
    Secretary of Legation at St. Petersburg.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN AND PALMERSTON]

The Prince Albert to Lord John Russell.

20th June 1849.

MY DEAR LORD JOHN,--Your proposal with respect to the mode of taking the Queen's pleasure about
the drafts is perfectly agreeable to the Queen. She would only require that she would not be
pressed for an answer within a few minutes, as is now done sometimes.

Lord Palmerston could always manage so that there are twelve or twenty-four hours left for
reference to you, and consideration, and there are few instances in which business would suffer
from so short a delay. As Lord Palmerston knows when the Mails go, he has only to write in
time for them, and he must recollect that the 28,000 despatches in the year come to you and
to the Queen as well as to himself.

Should the Queen in future have to make any remark, she will make it to you, if that will suit
you. Ever yours truly,

ALBERT.

Lord John Russell to Viscount Palmerston.

21st June 1849.

MY DEAR PALMERSTON,--I wrote the substance of what you wrote to me to the Prince, and proposed
that the drafts should, in the first instance, be sent to me. You will see by the enclosed
letter from the Prince that the Queen approves of this proposal.

It may somewhat abridge the circuit if, when I have no remark to make, I forward the drafts
with the Foreign Office direction to the Queen at once.

I cannot pretend to say that I paid the same attention to the 28,000 despatches of 1848 that
you are obliged to do. Still I agree in the Prince's remark that directions to Foreign Ministers
ought to be very maturely weighed, for the Queen and the Government speak to foreign nations
in this and no other manner. Yours truly,

J. RUSSELL.

[Pageheading: SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 21st June 1849.

The Queen returns the enclosed drafts, which she will not further object to, but she feels
it necessary to say a few words in answer to Lord Palmerston's letter. The union of Schleswig
and Holstein[14] is not an ideal one, but complete as to Constitution, Finance, Customs, Jurisdiction,
Church, Universities, Poor Law, Settlement, Debts, etc., etc., etc. It is not established by
the Kings-Dukes, but has existed for centuries. To defend Holstein against the attack made
by Denmark upon this union, Germany joined the war. It is true that it is now proposed in the
new Constitution for Germany to consent to the separation of Schleswig and Holstein, although
last year the Frankfort Parliament had desired the incorporation of Schleswig into Germany
with Holstein; but the question for Germany is now not to begin a war, but to close one by
a lasting peace. In this she has, in the Queen's opinion, a right and a duty to see that the
independence of Schleswig is secured before she abandons that country. The comparison with
Saxony does not hold good for a moment, for the Schleswig Revolution was not directed against
the Duke, but against the King of Denmark, who invaded the rights of the Duke of Schleswig-Holstein;
the assistance of Prussia could therefore not be given to Denmark, but to Schleswig-Holstein.
The case of Hungary has neither any similitude. Hungary is not to be torn from its connection
with the German States by the Austrian Government, but just the reverse.

Lord Palmerston cannot be more anxious for a speedy termination of the Danish war than the
Queen is, but she thinks that the mediation will not effect this as long as the mediating power
merely watches which of the two parties is in the greatest difficulties for the moment, and
urges it to give way; but by a careful and anxious discovery of the rights of the question
and a steady adherence to the recommendation that what is right and fair ought to be done.
The cause of the war having been the unlawful attempt to incorporate Schleswig into Denmark,
the peace cannot be lasting unless it contains sufficient guarantees against the resumption
of that scheme.[15]

    [Footnote 14: Schleswig had been claimed by Germany as an
    integral part of her territory, and a war between Germany and
    Denmark was in progress.]

    [Footnote 15: In reply, Lord Palmerston expressed entire
    concurrence in the justice of the principles which the Queen
    indicated as being those which ought to guide a mediating
    Power.]

[Pageheading: PROPOSED VISIT TO IRELAND]

Lord John Russell to the Earl of Clarendon.

23rd June 1849.

I have the satisfaction to inform your Excellency that I have received the Queen's commands
to acquaint you that Her Majesty hopes to be able in the course of the present summer to fulfil
the intention, which you are aware she has long entertained, of a visit to Ireland. The general
distress unfortunately still prevalent in Ireland precludes the Queen from visiting Dublin
in state, and thereby causing ill-timed expenditure and inconvenience to her subjects; yet
Her Majesty does not wish to let another year pass without visiting a part of her dominions
which she has for so long a time been anxious personally to become acquainted with. She accordingly
will, at some sacrifice of personal convenience, take a longer sea voyage, for the purpose
of visiting in the first instance the Cove of Cork, and from thence proceed along the Irish
coast to Dublin. After remaining there a few days, during which time Her Majesty will be the
guest of your Excellency, she would continue her cruise along the Irish coast northward and
visit Belfast, and from thence cross to Scotland. Although the precise time of Her Majesty's
visit cannot yet be fixed, it will probably take place as early in August as the termination
of the session of Parliament will permit, and I feel assured that this early announcement of
her intentions will be received with great satisfaction by Her Majesty's loyal and faithful
subjects in Ireland.

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 19th July 1849.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's letters. She returns Lord Clarendon's, and the very
kind one of the Primate.[16]

With respect to Lord Clarendon's suggestion that the Prince of Wales should be created Duke,
or rather, as Lord John says, Earl of Dublin--the Queen thinks it is a matter for consideration
whether such an act should follow the Queen's visit as a compliment to Ireland, but she is
decidedly of opinion that it should not precede it.

We are sorry that Lord John does not intend going to Ireland, but fully comprehend his wishes
to remain quiet for three weeks. We shall be very glad to see him at Balmoral on the 20th or
22nd of August.

We hope Lady John and the baby continue to go on well.

    [Footnote 16: Lord John George de la Poer Beresford
    (1773-1862) was Archbishop of Armagh from 1822 until his
    death.]

[Pageheading: ARRIVAL IN DUBLIN]

[Pageheading: THE IRISH VISIT]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

LODGE, PH[OE]NIX PARK, 6th August 1849.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Though this letter will only go to-morrow, I will begin it to-day and tell
you that everything has gone off beautifully since we arrived in Ireland, and that our entrance
into Dublin was really a magnificent thing. By my letter to Louise you will have heard of our
arrival in the Cove of Cork. Our visit to Cork was very successful; the Mayor was knighted
on deck (on board the Fairy), like in times of old. Cork is about seventeen miles up the River
Lee, which is beautifully wooded and reminds us of Devonshire scenery. We had previously stepped
on shore at Cove, a small place, to enable them to call it Queen's Town; the enthusiasm is
immense, and at Cork there was more firing than I remember since the Rhine.

We left Cork with fair weather, but a head sea and contrary wind which made it rough and me
very sick.

7th.--I was unable to continue till now, and have since received your kind letter, for which
I return my warmest thanks. We went into Waterford Harbour on Saturday afternoon, which is
likewise a fine, large, safe harbour. Albert went up to Waterford in the Fairy, but I did not.
The next morning we received much the same report of the weather which we had done at Cork,
viz. that the weather was fair but the wind contrary. However we went out, as it could not
be helped, and we might have remained there some days for no use. The first three hours were
very nasty, but afterwards it cleared and the evening was beautiful. The entrance at seven
o'clock into Kingston Harbour was splendid; we came in with ten steamers, and the whole harbour,
wharf, and every surrounding place was covered with thousands and thousands of people, who
received us with the greatest enthusiasm. We disembarked yesterday morning at ten o'clock,
and took two hours to come here. The most perfect order was maintained in spite of the immense
mass of people assembled, and a more good-humoured crowd I never saw, but noisy and excitable
beyond belief, talking, jumping, and shrieking instead of cheering. There were numbers of troops
out, and it really was a wonderful scene. This is a very pretty place, and the house reminds
me of dear Claremont. The view of the Wicklow Mountains from the windows is very beautiful,
and the whole park is very extensive and full of very fine trees.

We drove out yesterday afternoon and were followed by jaunting-cars and riders and people running
and screaming, which would have amused you. In the evening we had a dinner party, and so we
have to-night. This morning we visited the Bank, the Model School (where the Protestant and
Catholic Archbishops received us), and the College, and this afternoon we went to the Military
Hospital. To-morrow we have a Levée, where 1,700 are to be presented, and the next day a Review,
and in the evening the Drawing-Room, when 900 ladies are to be presented.

George[17] is here, and has a command here. He rode on one side of our carriage yesterday.
You see more ragged and wretched people here than I ever saw anywhere else. En revanche, the
women are really very handsome--quite in the lowest class--as well at Cork as here; such beautiful
black eyes and hair and such fine colours and teeth.

I must now take my leave. Ever your most affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 17: The late Duke of Cambridge.]

The Earl of Clarendon to Sir George Grey.

VICE-REGAL LODGE, 14th August 1849.

MY DEAR GREY,--If I had known where to direct I should have thanked you sooner for your two
welcome letters from Belfast, where everything seems to have gone off to our hearts' desire,
and the Queen's presence, as the Stipendiary Magistrate writes word, has united all classes
and parties in a manner incredible to those who know the distance at which they have hitherto
been kept asunder.

The enthusiasm here has not abated, and there is not an individual in Dublin that does not
take as a personal compliment to himself the Queen's having gone upon the paddle-box and having
ordered the Royal Standard to be lowered three times.

Even the ex-Clubbists,[18] who threatened broken heads and windows before the Queen came, are
now among the most loyal of her subjects, and are ready, according to the police reports, to
fight any one who dare say a disrespectful word of Her Majesty. Friend Bright was with me to-day,
and said he would not for the world have missed seeing the embarkation at Kingston, for he
had felt just the same enthusiasm as the rest of the crowd. "Indeed," he added, "I'll defy
any man to have felt otherwise when he saw the Queen come upon the platform and bow to the
people in a manner that showed her heart was with them." He didn't disguise either that the
Monarchical principle had made great way with him since Friday. Ever yours truly,

CLARENDON.

    [Footnote 18: Seditious clubs had been an important factor in
    the Irish disturbances of 1848.]

[Pageheading: BREVET PROMOTIONS]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 3rd October 1849.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's explanation respecting the brevet promotions on
the occasion of her visit to Ireland, but cannot say that his objections have convinced her
of the impropriety of such a promotion (to a limited extent). To Lord John's fears of the dangerous
consequences of the precedent, the Queen has only to answer, that there can be only one first
visit to Ireland, and that the first visit to Scotland in 1842 was followed by a few promotions,
without this entailing promotions on her subsequent visits to that part of the country; that
even the first visit to the Channel Islands was followed by a few promotions, and this under
Lord John's Government. All the precedents being in accordance with the proposition made by
the Duke, an opposition on the part of the Government would imply a declaration against all
brevets except in the field, which would deprive the Crown of a most valuable prerogative.
If such a brevet as the one proposed were to lead to great additional expense, the Queen could
understand the objection on the ground of economy; but the giving brevet rank to a few subaltern
officers is too trifling a matter to alarm the Government. Perhaps the number might be reduced
even, but to deviate from the established precedents for the first time altogether in this
case, and that after the excellent behaviour of the Army in Ireland under very trying circumstances,
would be felt as a great injustice.

The economy, as your Majesty truly observes, is not a matter of much consideration. But to
reward Officers on the Staff, who are already favoured by being placed on the Staff in Ireland,
is a practice which tends but too much to encourage the opinion that promotions in the Army
and Navy are given not to merit, but to aristocratical connection and official favour.

In the midst of the degradation of Thrones which the last two years have seen in Europe, it
will be well if the English Crown preserves all its just prerogatives, and has only to relinquish
some customary abuses, which are not useful to the Sovereign, and are only an equivocal advantage
to the Ministers of the day.

[Pageheading: A PUBLIC THANKSGIVING]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 31st October 1849.

The Queen has just received Lord John Russell's letter, and was much rejoiced at everything
having gone off so well yesterday;[20] she was very much annoyed at being unable to go herself,
and that the untoward chicken-pox should have come at this moment; she is, however, quite recovered,
though still much marked.

With respect to the proposition about the Thanksgiving, the Queen quite approves of it, and
(if it is generally preferred) that it should be on a week-day. As to the Bishop of London's
proposal,[21] the Queen thinks that Lord John may have misunderstood him; she supposes that
he meant that she should attend some place of public worship, and not in her domestic chapel,
in order to join in the public demonstration. The Queen is quite ready to go with her Court
to St George's Chapel here; but she would like it to take place on an earlier day than the
27th of November, when she would probably be already in the Isle of Wight, where we think of
going as usual on the 22nd or 23rd.

    [Footnote 20: The ceremony of opening the new Coal Exchange,
    at which, besides Prince Albert, the Prince of Wales and
    Princess Royal were present.]

    [Footnote 21: There had been a severe epidemic of cholera in
    the country. In twelve months 14,000 deaths, in London alone,
    were due to this malady. The 15th of November was appointed
    for a general Day of Thanksgiving for its cessation, and the
    Bishop of London had suggested that the Queen should attend a
    public service at St Paul's. Lord John Russell was in favour
    of Westminster Abbey.]

[Pageheading: POSITION OF GERMANY]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria. In answer to your Majesty's enquiry, he has to state that
a very short conversation took place in the Cabinet on the affairs of Germany upon an enquiry
of Lord John Russell whether the Diet of Erfurt[22] might not be considered a violation of
the Treaties of 1815. Lord Palmerston thought not, but had not examined the question.

The affairs of Germany are in a critical position; Austria will oppose anything which tends
to aggrandise Prussia; Prussia will oppose anything which tends to free Government; and France
will oppose anything which tends to strengthen Germany. Still, all these powers might be disregarded
were Germany united, but it is obvious that Bavaria and Würtemberg look to Austria and France
for support, while Hanover and Saxony will give a very faint assistance to a Prussian League.

The matter is very critical, but probably will not lead to war.

    [Footnote 22: In order to effect the consolidation of Germany,
    the King of Prussia had summoned a Federal Parliament to meet
    at Erfurt.]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 30th November 1849.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and in reply to your Majesty's
enquiry as to what the measures would be which Sir William Parker[23] would have to take in
order to support Mr Wyse's[24] demands for redress for certain wrongs sustained by British
and Ionian subjects, begs to say that the ordinary and accustomed method of enforcing such
demands is by reprisals--that is to say, by seizing some vessels and property of the party
which refuses redress,[25] and retaining possession thereof until redress is granted.

Another method is the blockading of the ports of the party by whom redress is refused, and
by interrupting commercial intercourse to cause inconvenience and loss. Viscount Palmerston,
however, does not apprehend that any active measures of this kind will be required, but rather
expects that when the Greek Government finds that the demand is made in earnest, and that means
are at hand to enforce it, satisfaction will at last be given. The refusal of the Greek Government
to satisfy these claims, and the offensive neglect with which they have treated the applications
of your Majesty's representative at Athens have, as Viscount Palmerston is convinced, been
the result of a belief that the British Government never would take any real steps in order
to press these matters to a settlement.

    [Footnote 23: Commanding the Mediterranean Fleet.]

    [Footnote 24: British Envoy at Athens.]

    [Footnote 25: See Introductory Note for 1850, post, p.
    231.]

[Pageheading: DEATH OF QUEEN ADELAIDE]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 11th December 1849.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Thank you much for your kind letter of the 6th; you will have received mine
of the 4th shortly after you wrote. I know how you would mourn with us over the death of our
beloved Queen Adelaide. We have lost the kindest and dearest of friends, and the universal
feeling of sorrow, of regret, and of real appreciation of her character is very touching and
gratifying. All parties, all classes, join in doing her justice. Much was done to set Mamma
against her, but the dear Queen ever forgave this, ever showed love and affection, and for
the last eight years their friendship was as great as ever. Ever yours affectionately,

VICTORIA R.

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER XIX

The Ministry were still (1850) able, relying on the support of Sir Robert Peel, to resist the
attacks of the Protectionists in the House of Commons, though their majority on a critical
occasion fell to twenty-one; but they were rehabilitated by the discussions on foreign policy.
One Don Pacifico, a Portuguese Jew, a native of Gibraltar and a British subject, had had his
house in Athens pillaged by a mob; he, with Mr Finlay, the historian, who had a money claim
against the Greek Government, instead of establishing their claims in the local courts, sought
the intervention of the home Government; Lord Palmerston, whose relations with the Court were
even more strained than usual, resolved to make a hostile demonstration against Greece, and
a fleet was sent to the Piræus with a peremptory demand for settlement. The House of Lords
condemned this high-handed action, but a friendly motion of confidence was made in the Commons,
and Lord Palmerston had an extraordinary triumph, by a majority of forty-six, notwithstanding
that the ablest men outside the Ministry spoke against him, and that his unsatisfactory relations
with the Queen were about to culminate in a severe reprimand.

Sir Robert Peel's speech in this debate proved to be his last public utterance, his premature
death, resulting from a fall from his horse, taking place a few days later; Louis Philippe,
who had been living in retirement at Claremont, passed away about the same time. Another attack
on the Queen, this time a blow with a cane, was made by one Robert Pate, an ex-officer and
well-connected; the plea of insanity was not established, and Pate was transported.

Public attention was being drawn to the projected Exhibition in Hyde Park, Prince Albert making
a memorable speech at the Mansion House in support of the scheme; the popular voice had not
been unanimous in approval, and subscriptions had hung fire, but henceforward matters improved,
and Mr Paxton's design for a glass and iron structure was accepted and proceeded with.

The friction with Lord Palmerston was again increased by his action in respect to General Haynau,
an Austrian whose cruelty had been notorious, and who was assaulted by some of the employés
at a London brewery. The Foreign Office note to the Austrian Government nearly brought about
Palmerston's resignation, which was much desired by the Queen.

At the close of the year the whole country was in a ferment at the issue of a Papal Brief,
re-establishing the hierarchy of Bishops in England with local titles derived from their sees;
and Cardinal Wiseman, thenceforward Archbishop of Westminster, by issuing a pastoral letter
on the subject, made matters worse. The Protestant spirit was aroused, the two Universities
presented petitions, and the Prime Minister, in a letter to the Bishop of Durham, helped to
fan the "No Popery" flame. Just at a time when a coalition of Whigs and Peelites was beginning
to be possible, an Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, almost fatal to mutual confidence, became necessary.

CHAPTER XIX

1850

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 5th February 1850.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--We had the house full for three days last week on account of our theatrical
performances on Friday, which went off extremely well. The Grand Duchess Stephanie was here,
très aimable, and not altered. She spoke much of Germany and of politics, and of you in the
highest terms--"Comme le Roi Léopold s'est bien tenu"--and that she had mentioned this at Claremont,
and then felt shocked at it, but that the poor King had answered: "Il avait mon exemple devant
lui, et il en a profité!" She thought the whole family très digne in their malheur, but was
struck with the melancholy effect of the whole thing.

Our affairs have gone off extremely well in Parliament, and the Protectionists have received
an effective check; the question of the Corn Laws seems indeed settled. This is of great importance,
as it puts a stop to the excitement and expectations of the farmers, which have been falsely
kept up by the aristocracy....

I must now conclude. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Viscount Palmerston to Lord John Russell.

CARLTON GARDENS, 15th February 1850.

MY DEAR JOHN RUSSELL,--I have altered this draft so as I think to meet the views of the Queen
and of yourself in regard to the continuance of the suspension.[1] I should not like to put
into a despatch an instruction to accept less than we have demanded, because that would imply
what I don't think to be the fact, viz. that we have demanded more than is due. If the demands
were for the British Government, we might forego what portions we might like to give up, but
we have no right to be easy and generous with the rights and claims of other people. Besides,
if we get anything, we shall get all. The whole amount is quite within the power of the Greek
Government to pay. Yours sincerely,

PALMERSTON.

    [Footnote 1: I.e. of hostilities against the Greek
    Government, designed to extract compensation for the injuries
    inflicted on British subjects. See ante, p. 231.]

[Pageheading: THE DRAFT TO GREECE]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 17th February 1850.

The Queen sent the day before yesterday the proposed draft to Mr Wyse back to Lord Palmerston,
enclosing a Memorandum from Lord John Russell, and telling Lord Palmerston "that she entirely
concurred with Lord John, and wished the draft to be altered accordingly." She has not yet
received an answer from Lord Palmerston, but just hears from Lord John, in answer to her enquiry
about it, that Lord Palmerston has sent the draft off unaltered.[2] The Queen must remark upon
this sort of proceeding, of which this is not the first instance, and plainly tell Lord Palmerston
that this must not happen again. Lord Palmerston has a perfect right to state to the Queen
his reasons for disagreeing with her views, and will always have found her ready to listen
to his reasons; but she cannot allow a servant of the Crown and her Minister to act contrary
to her orders, and this without her knowledge.

    [Footnote 2: See Ashley's Palmerston, vol. i. chap. v.]

[Pageheading: PALMERSTON'S EXPLANATION]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

CARLTON GARDENS. 17th February 1850. It was important that the messenger should go off that
evening, and the time occupied in these communications rendered it just, but barely, possible
to despatch the messenger by the mail train of that evening. The despatch thus altered coincided
with the views of your Majesty and Lord John Russell as to the question in regard to the length
of time during which reprisals should be suspended to give scope for the French negotiation.
The other question as to giving Mr Wyse a latitude of discretion to entertain any proposition
which might be made to him by the Greek Government was considered by the Cabinet at its meeting
yesterday afternoon, and Viscount Palmerston gave Mr Wyse a latitude of that kind in regard
to the claim of Mr Pacifico, the only one to which that question could apply, in a despatch
which he sent by the overland Mediterranean mail which went off yesterday afternoon. That despatch
also contained some instructions as to the manner in which Mr Wyse is to communicate with Baron
Gros,[4] and those instructions were the result of a conversation which Viscount Palmerston
had with the French Ambassador after the meeting of the Cabinet. Viscount Palmerston was only
waiting for a copy of the despatch of yesterday evening, which, owing to this day being Sunday,
he has not yet received, in order to send to your Majesty the altered draft of yesterday evening,
with an explanation of the circumstances which rendered it impossible to submit them to your
Majesty before they were sent off.[5]

    [Footnote 3: Lord John Russell's opinion was that three weeks
    should be allowed to Mr Wyse and Sir W. Parker to accept terms
    as satisfactory as they could obtain, and that Sir W. Parker
    should not be obliged to resume coercive measures, if the
    concessions of the Greek Government should appear to afford a
    prospect of a speedy settlement of the affair.]

    [Footnote 4: Baron Gros was the Commissioner despatched by
    the French Government to Athens to assist in arranging the
    dispute.]

    [Footnote 5: See subsequent correspondence between Lord John
    and Lord Palmerston, Walpole's Russell, vol. ii. chap. xix.]

[Pageheading: RE-ARRANGEMENT SUGGESTED]

[Pageheading: LORD JOHN RUSSELL'S PLAN]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 3rd March 1850.

Before leaving Town yesterday we saw Lord John Russell, who came to state what had passed with
reference to Lord Palmerston. He premised that Lord Palmerston had at all times been a most
agreeable and accommodating colleague; that he had acted with Lord John ever since 1831, and
had not only never made any difficulty, but acted most boldly and in the most spirited manner
on all political questions; besides, he was very popular with the Radical part of the House
of Commons as well as with the Protectionist, so that both would be ready to receive him as
their Leader; he (Lord John) was therefore most anxious to do nothing which could hurt Lord
Palmerston's feelings, nor to bring about a disruption of the Whig Party, which at this moment
of Party confusion was the only one which still held together. On the other hand, the fact
that the Queen distrusted Lord Palmerston was a serious impediment to the carrying on of the
Government. Lord John was therefore anxious to adopt a plan by which Lord Palmerston's services
could be retained with his own goodwill, and the Foreign Affairs entrusted to other hands.
The only plan he could think of was to give Lord Palmerston the lead in the House of Commons--the
highest position a statesman could aspire to--and to go himself to the House of Lords. He had
communicated his views to Lord Lansdowne, who agreed in them, and thought he could do nothing
better than speak to Lord Palmerston at once. Lord Palmerston said that he could not have helped
to have become aware that he had forfeited the Queen's confidence, but he thought this had
not been on personal grounds, but merely on account of his line of policy, with which the Queen
disagreed.

On the question how the Foreign Office should be filled, Lord John said that he thought his
father-in-law, Lord Minto, ought to take the Foreign Office.... As the Queen was somewhat startled
by this announcement, I said I thought that would not go down with the public. After Lord Palmerston's
removal (who was considered one of the ablest men in the country) he ought not to be replaced
but by an equally able statesman; the Office was of enormous importance, and ought not to be
entrusted to any one but Lord John himself or Lord Clarendon. On the Queen's enquiry why Lord
Clarendon had not been proposed for it, Lord John said he was most anxious that the change
of the Minister should not produce a change in the general line of policy which he considered
to have been quite right, and that Lord Clarendon did not approve of it; somehow or other he
never could agree with Lord Clarendon on Foreign Affairs; he thought Lord Clarendon very anti-French
and for an alliance with Austria and Russia. The Queen replied she knew Lord Clarendon's bad
opinion of the mode in which the Foreign Affairs had been conducted, and thought that a merit
in him, but did not think him Austrian or Russian, but merely disapproving of Lord Palmerston's
behaviour. I urged Lord John to take the Foreign Affairs himself, which he said would have
to be done if the Queen did not wish Lord Minto to take them; he himself would be able to do
the business when in the House of Lords, although he would undertake it unwillingly; with the
business in the House of Commons it would have been impossible for him.

The Queen insisted on his trying it with a seat in the House of Lords, adding that, if he found
it too much for him, he could at a later period perhaps make the Department over to Lord Clarendon.

I could not help remarking that it was a serious risk to entrust Lord Palmerston with the lead
in the House of Commons, that it might be that the Government were defeated and, if once in
opposition, Lord Palmerston might take a different line as leader of the Opposition from that
which Lord John would like, and might so easily force himself back into office as Prime Minister.
Lord John, however, although admitting that danger, thought Lord Palmerston too old to do much
in the future (having passed his sixty-fifth year); he admitted that Sir George Grey was the
natural leader of the Commons, but expected that a little later the lead would still fall into
his hands.

The arrangements of the Offices as proposed would be that Lord Palmerston would take the Home
Office, and Sir George Grey the Colonial Office, and Lord Grey vacate this office for the Privy
Seal. If Lord Minto, however, was not to have the Foreign Office, the arrangement must be recast.
Lord Clarendon would become Secretary of State for Ireland, after the abolition of the Lord-Lieutenancy.
Possibly also Sir George Grey might take the office, and Lord Clarendon take the Colonies,
which Lord Grey would be glad to be rid of. On my observing that I had thought the Colonies
would have done best for Lord Palmerston, leaving Sir George Grey at the Home Office, Lord
John acknowledged that he would likewise prefer this arrangement, but considered it rendered
impossible from its having been the very thing Lord Grey had proposed in 1845, and upon which
the attempt to form a Whig Government at that time had broken down, Lord Palmerston having
refused to enter the Cabinet on those terms. Lord John ended by saying that Lord Palmerston
having agreed to the change, it was intended that nothing should be done about it till after
the close of the Session, in order to avoid debates and questions on the subject; moreover,
Lord Lansdowne had agreed to continue still this Session his labours as Leader in the House
of Lords, and begged for the utmost secrecy at present.

ALBERT.

Lord John Russell already last year had spoken to me of his wish to go to the House of Lords,
finding the work in the House of Commons, together with his other business, too much for him,
and Lord Lansdowne being desirous to be relieved from the lead in the Upper House.

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S ULTIMATUM]

Memorandum by Baron Stockmar.[6]

12th March 1850.

2. Having given once her sanction to a measure, the Minister who, in the execution of such
measure alters or modifies it arbitrarily, commits an act of dishonesty towards the Crown,
which the Queen has an undoubted constitutional right to visit with the dismissal of that Minister.

STOCKMAR.

    [Footnote 6: Compare this with the Memorandum ultimately drawn
    up on the 12th of August.]

Queen Victoria to the Marquis of Lansdowne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 16th March 1850.

The Queen wishes to remark to Lord Lansdowne, that his answer to Lord Stanley in the House
of Lords last night might possibly lead to the misapprehension that Lord Palmerston's delay
in sending the despatch to Mr Wyse had been caused by the time it took to get the Queen's approval
of it. She must protest against such an inference being drawn, as being contrary to the fact,
Lord Palmerston indeed having sent out in the first instance a different despatch from that
which she had approved.

[Pageheading: AFFAIRS IN FRANCE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 25th March 1850.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,-- ... King Louis Philippe seems better, but still he is evidently breaking;
there is no wonder when one considers all he has gone through, and is still to suffer! No one
can tell a day [ahead] what may happen in France, and if all the family have, which is but[7]
in France, may not be confiscated. The thirst for spoliation is great; the people who lead
have no other view, they are not fanatics, their aim is to rise and to enrich themselves; the
remainder is mere humbug, exactly as you have it very near home. Never was there a nation in
a worse and a more helpless state, and the numerous parties who will not unite render all solutions
impossible, and the republic will be maintained for that very reason. It is but a name and
no substance, but that name of republic encourages every extravagant or desperate proceeding,
and turns people's heads in the old monarchies; every doctor or magistrate sees himself president
of some republic, and the ambitions of so many people who see all the impediments which existed
formerly removed, and who, according to their own opinion, are wonderful people, will be insatiable
and much more dangerous than you imagine in England. On the Continent every man thinks himself
fit to be at the head of the Government; there is no political measure or scale, and the success
of some bookseller or doctor or advocate, etc., turns the heads of all those in similar positions--on
ne doute de rien. When you consider that a banqueroutier like Ledru Rollin[8] ruled over France
for six months almost with absolute power, merely because he took it, you may imagine how many
thousands, even of workmen, cooks, stage people, etc., look to be taken to rule over their
fellow-citizens; toujours convaincu de leur propre mérite. I am happy to see that you escaped
a ministerial crisis; the peril was great, and it would have been dreadful for you at such
a moment.

Albert made a fine long speech, I see.[9] Did he read it? ex tempore, it would have been very
trying. I trust we may come to that unity of mankind of which he speaks, and of universal peace
which our friend Richard Cobden considers as very near at hand; if, however, the red benefactors
of mankind at Paris get the upper hand, universal war will be the order of the day. We are
so strongly convinced of this that we are very seriously occupied with the means of defence
which this country can afford, and we imagine that if we are not abandoned by our friends,
it will be impossible to force our positions on the Schelde.

I must now quickly conclude. Remaining ever, my beloved Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 7: I.e. "only."]

    [Footnote 8: He was President in 1848.]

    [Footnote 9: At the Mansion House banquet to the Commissioners
    for the Exhibition of 1851. See quotation from it in Sir T.
    Martin's Life, vol. ii, p. 247.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 25th March 1850.

The Queen approves these drafts, but thinks that in the part alluding to M. Pacifico, should
be added a direction to Mr Wyse to satisfy himself of the truth of M. Pacifico's statements
of losses before he grounds his demands upon them.[10] The draft merely allows a sub-division
of the claims, but takes their validity for granted.

    [Footnote 10: Don Pacifico claimed £31,500--£4,900 being for
    effects destroyed, and £26,600 in respect of certain claims
    against the Portuguese Government, the vouchers for which he
    stated had been destroyed by the mob which pillaged his house.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Albert made a really beautiful speech the other day, and it has given the
greatest satisfaction and done great good. He is indeed looked up to and beloved, as I could
wish he should be; and the more his rare qualities of mind and heart are known, the more he
will be understood and appreciated. People are much struck at his great powers and energy;
his great self-denial, and constant wish to work for others, is so striking in his character;
but it is the happiest life; pining for what one cannot have, and trying to run after what
is pleasantest, invariably ends in disappointment.

I must now conclude.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I write only a few lines to-day, begging you to give the accompanying drawing
of her little namesake to dearest Louise on her birthday.

I shall duly answer your dear letter of the 25th on Tuesday, but am anxious to correct the
impression that Albert read his fine speech. He never has done so with any of his fine speeches,
but speaks them, having first prepared them and written them down,--and does so so well, that
no one believes that he is ever nervous, which he is. This last he is said to have spoken in
so particularly English a way.

We have still sadly cold winds.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's letter with the drafts, which he mentioned last
night to her, and she has sent his letter with them to Lord Palmerston.

Lord Palmerston's conduct in this Spanish question[11] in not communicating her letter to Lord
John, as she had directed, is really too bad, and most disrespectful to the Queen; she can
really hardly communicate with him any more; indeed it would be better she should not.

    [Footnote 11: The question was the selection of a Minister for
    Madrid.]

[Pageheading: LORD HOWDEN]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 27th April 1850.

In order to save the Government embarrassments, the Queen has sanctioned the appointment of
Lord Howden[12] to Madrid, although she does not consider him to be quite the stamp of person
in whom she could feel entire confidence that he will be proof against all spirit of intrigue,
which at all times and now particularly is so much required in Spain. But she must once more
ask Lord John to watch that the Queen may be quite openly and considerately dealt by. She knows
that Lord Howden has long been made acquainted with his appointment, and has been corresponding
upon it with General Narvaez; the correspondent of the Times has announced his appointment
from Madrid already three weeks ago, and all that time Lord Palmerston remained silent upon
the matter to the Queen, not even answering her upon her letter expressing her wish to see
Lord Westmorland[13] appointed. Lord John must see the impropriety of this course, and if it
were not for the Queen's anxiety to smooth all difficulties, the Government might be exposed
to most awkward embarrassments. She expects, however, and has the right to claim, equal consideration
on the part of her Ministers. She addresses herself in this matter to Lord John as the head
of the Government.

    [Footnote 12: Lord Howden had been recently Minister at Rio
    Janeiro.]

    [Footnote 13: Minister at Berlin, 1841-51.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

PEMBROKE LODGE, 28th April 1850.

... Lord John Russell cannot but assent to your Majesty's right to claim every consideration
on the part of your Majesty's Ministers. He will take care to attend to this subject, and is
much concerned to find that your Majesty has so frequently occasion to complain of Lord Palmerston's
want of attention.

[Pageheading: THE KOH-I-NOOR]

The Marquis of Dalhousie to Queen Victoria.

SIMLA, 15th May 1850.

... When the Governor-General had the honour of addressing your Majesty from Bombay, the arrangements
for the transmission of the Koh-i-noor were incomplete. He therefore did not then report to
your Majesty, as he now humbly begs leave to do, that he conveyed the jewel himself from Lahore
in his own charge, and deposited it in the Treasury at Bombay. One of your Majesty's ships
had been ordered to Bombay to receive it, but had not then arrived, and did not arrive till
two months afterwards, thus causing delay. The Medea, however, sailed on 6th April, and will,
it is hoped, have a safe and speedy passage to England.

By this mail the Governor-General transmits officially a record of all that he has been able
to trace of the vicissitudes through which the Koh-i-noor has passed. The papers are accurate
and curious.

In one of them it is narrated, on the authority of Fugueer-ood-deen, who is now at Lahore,
and who was himself the messenger, that Runjeet Singh sent a message to Wufa Begum, the wife
of Shah Sooja, from whom he had taken the gem, to ask her its value. She replied, "If a strong
man were to throw four stones, one north, one south, one east, one west, and a fifth stone
up into the air, and if the space between them were to be filled with gold, all would not equal
the value of the Koh-i-noor." The Fugueer, thinking probably that this appraisement was somewhat
imaginative, subsequently asked Shah Sooja the same question. The Shah replied that its value
was "good fortune; for whoever possessed it had conquered their enemies."

The Governor-General very respectfully and earnestly trusts that your Majesty, in your possession
of the Koh-i-noor, may ever continue to realise its value as estimated by Shah Sooja.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 18th May 1850.

MY DEAR LORD JOHN,--I return you the enclosed letters which forbode a new storm, this time
coming from Russia.[14] I confess I do not understand that part of the quarrel, but one conviction
grows stronger and stronger with the Queen and myself (if it is possible), viz. that Lord Palmerston
is bringing the whole of the hatred which is borne to him--I don't mean here to investigate
whether justly or unjustly--by all the Governments of Europe upon England, and that the country
runs serious danger of having to pay for the consequences. We cannot reproach ourselves with
having neglected warning and entreaties, but the Queen may feel that her duty demands her not
to be content with mere warning without any effect, and that for the sake of one man the welfare
of the country must not be exposed....

ALBERT.

    [Footnote 14: Russia as well as France had been appealed to by
    Greece against the pressure brought to bear upon her. On the
    18th of April a Convention was signed in London disposing of
    the whole dispute, and referring Don Pacifico's claims
    against Portugal to arbitration. Lord Palmerston was remiss in
    communicating the progress of those negotiations to Mr Wyse,
    who persisted in his coercive measures, disregarding the
    intelligence on the subject he received from Baron Gros, and
    Greece accordingly submitted to his terms. France and Russia
    were incensed, the French Ambassador was recalled, and on the
    18th of May Baron Brunnow intimated the imminence of similar
    action by the Czar.]

Lord John Russell to the Prince Albert.

PEMBROKE LODGE, 18th May 1850.

SIR,--I feel very strongly that the Queen ought not to be exposed to the enmity of Austria,
France, and Russia on account of her Minister. I was therefore prepared to state on Monday
that it is for Her Majesty to consider what course it will be best for her and for the country
to pursue.

1. I am quite ready to resign my office, but I could not make Lord Palmerston the scapegoat
for the sins which will be imputed to the Government in the late negotiations.

2. I am ready, if it is thought best, to remain in office till questions pending in the two
Houses are decided. If unfavourably, a solution is obtained; if favourably, Lord John Russell
will no longer remain in office with Lord Palmerston as Foreign Secretary.

These are hasty and crude thoughts, but may be matured by Monday.

[Pageheading: LORD JOHN RUSSELL'S REPORT]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 20th May 1850.

Lord John Russell came to-day to make his report to the Queen on his final determination with
respect to the Greek question and Lord Palmerston. He said it was quite impossible to abandon
Lord Palmerston upon this question, that the Cabinet was as much to blame (if there were cause
for it) as Lord Palmerston, and particularly he himself, who had given his consent to the measures
taken, and was justly held responsible by the country for the Foreign Policy of the Government.
Admitting, however, that Lord Palmerston's personal quarrels with all Governments of foreign
countries and the hostility with which they were looking upon him was doing serious injury
to the country, and exposing the Crown to blows aimed at the Minister, he had consulted Lord
Lansdowne.... Lord Lansdowne fully felt the strength of what I said respecting the power of
the Leader of the House of Commons, and the right on the part of the Queen to object to its
being conferred upon a person who had not her entire confidence. I said I hoped Lord Lansdowne
would consider the communication of the letter as quite confidential, as, although I had no
objection to telling Lord Palmerston anything that was said in it myself, I should not like
that it should come to his ears by third persons or be otherwise talked of. Lord John assured
me that Lord Lansdowne could be entirely relied upon, and that he himself had locked up the
letter under key the moment he had received it, and would carefully guard it.

The result of our conference was, that we agreed that Lord Clarendon was the only member of
the Government to whom the Foreign Affairs could be entrusted unless Lord John were to take
them himself, which was much the best. Lord John objected to Lord Clarendon's intimate connection
with the Times, and the violent Austrian line of that paper; moreover, Lord Clarendon would
be wanted to organise the new department of Secretary of State for Ireland. The Colonial Office
was much the best for Lord Palmerston, and should Lord John go to the House of Lords, Sir George
Grey was to lead in the Commons. Lord John would take an opportunity of communicating with
Lord Palmerston, but wished nothing should be said or done about the changes till after the
close of the Session.[15]

ALBERT.

    [Footnote 15: The question of the relations of Lord Palmerston
    with the Crown had to be postponed owing to the debates in
    both Houses on Foreign Policy. In the Lords, Lord Stanley
    moved a vote of censure on the Government for enforcing by
    coercive measures various doubtful or exaggerated claims
    against the Greek Government.]

[Pageheading: SUNDAY POSTS]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 9th June 1850.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's two letters. If the Cabinet think it impossible
to do otherwise, of course the Queen consents--though most reluctantly--to a compliance with
the vote respecting the Post Office.[16] The Queen thinks it a very false notion of obeying
God's will, to do what will be the cause of much annoyance and possibly of great distress to
private families. At any rate, she thinks decidedly that great caution should be used with
respect to any alteration in the transmission of the mails, so that at least some means of
communication may still be possible.

    [Footnote 16: Lord Ashley carried a resolution forbidding
    the Sunday delivery of letters; a Committee of Inquiry was
    appointed, and reported against the proposed change, which was
    abandoned.]

Queen Victoria to the Duke of Cambridge.

OSBORNE, 10th June 1850.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I have enquired into the precedents, and find that though there are none exactly
similar to the case of George, there will be no difficulty to call him up to the House of Lords;
and I should propose that he should be called up by the name of Earl of Tipperary, which is
one of your titles. Culloden, which is your other title, would be from recollections of former
times obviously objectionable. There are several precedents of Princes being made Peers without
having an establishment, consequently there can be no difficulty on this point.

I feel confident that George will be very moderate in his politics, and support the Government
whenever he can. Princes of the Royal Family should keep as much as possible aloof from Party
Politics, as I think they else invariably become mixed up with Party violence, and frequently
are made the tools of people who are utterly regardless of the mischief they cause to the Throne
and Royal Family. Believe me, always, your affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: PRINCE GEORGE OF CAMBRIDGE]

The Duke of Cambridge to Queen Victoria.

CAMBRIDGE HOUSE, 10th June 1850.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I seize the earliest opportunity of thanking you for your very kind letter,
which I have this moment received, and to assure you at the same time that I do most fully
agree with you in your observations concerning the line in politics which the members of the
Royal Family ought to take. This has always been my principle since I entered the House of
Lords, and I am fully convinced that George will follow my example.

I must also add that I have felt the great advantage of supporting the Government, and I have
by that always been well with all Parties, and have avoided many difficulties which other members
of my family have had to encounter.

I shall not fail to communicate your letter to George, who will, I trust, never prove himself
unworthy of the kindness you have shown him.

With the request that you will remember me most kindly to Albert, I remain, my dearest Victoria,
your most affectionate Uncle,

ADOLPHUS.

Prince George of Cambridge to Queen Victoria.

ST JAMES'S PALACE, 15th June 1850.

MY DEAR COUSIN,--I have not as yet ventured to address you on a subject of much interest personally
to myself, and upon which I am aware that you have been in correspondence with my father; but
as I believe that the question which was brought to your notice has been settled, I cannot
any longer deprive myself of the pleasure of expressing to you my most sincere and grateful
thanks for the kind manner in which you have at once acceded to the anxious request of my father
and myself, by arranging with the Government that I should be called up to the House of Lords.
This has been a point upon which I have long been most anxious, and I am truly and sincerely
grateful that you have so considerately entered into my feelings and wishes. I understand that
it is your intention that I should be called up by my father's second title as Earl of Tipperary;
at the same time I hope that though I take a seat in the House as Earl of Tipperary, I may
be permitted to retain and be called by my present name on all occasions not connected with
the House of Lords. As regards the wish expressed by yourself, that I should not allow myself
to be made a political partisan, I need not, I trust, assure you that it will be ever my endeavour
to obey your desires upon this as on all other occasions; but I trust I may be permitted to
add, that even before this desire expressed by you, it had been my intention to follow this
line of conduct. I conceive that whenever they conscientiously can do so, the members of the
Royal Family should support the Queen's Government; and if at times it should happen that they
have a difficulty in so doing, it is at all events not desirable that they should place themselves
prominently in opposition to it. This I believe to be your feelings on the subject, and if
you will permit me to say so, they are also my own.

Hoping to have the pleasure soon of expressing to you my gratitude in person, I remain, my
dear Cousin, your most dutiful Cousin,

GEORGE.

Queen Victoria to Prince George of Cambridge.

OSBORNE, 17th June 1850.

MY DEAR GEORGE,--Many thanks for your kind letter received yesterday. I am glad to hear that
you are so entirely of my opinion with respect to the political conduct of the Princes of the
Royal Family who are peers, and I feel sure that your conduct will be quite in accordance with
this view. With respect to your wish to be called as you have hitherto been, I do not think
that this will be possible. It has never been done, besides which I think the Irish (who will
be much flattered at your being called up by the title of Tipperary) would feel it as a slight
if you did not wish to be called by the title you bear. All the Royal Peers have always been
called by their titles in this and in other countries, and I do not think it would be possible
to avoid it. Ever, etc.,

VICTORIA R.[17]

    [Footnote 17: The patent was made out, but not signed, a
    memorandum of Prince Albert recording:--

    BUCKINGHAM PALACE. 8th July 1850.

    I kept this warrant back from the Queen's signature on account
    of the Duke of Cambridge's illness. The Duke died yesterday
    evening, without a struggle, after an attack of fever which
    had lasted four weeks. So the summons of Prince George has
    never been carried out.

    ALBERT.]

[Pageheading: MR ROEBUCK'S MOTION]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 21st June 1850.

Mr Roebuck has proposed to move on Monday a general approbation of the Foreign Policy of the
Government.

What may be the result of such a Motion it is not easy to say, but as Lord Stanley has prevailed
on a majority in the House of Lords to censure the Foreign Policy of the Government, it is
impossible to avoid a decision by the House of Commons on this subject.

The misfortune is that on the one side every detail of negotiation is confounded with the general
principles of our Foreign Policy, and on the other a censure upon a Foreign Policy, the tendency
of which has been to leave despotism and democracy to fight out their own battles, will imply
in the eyes of Europe a preference for the cause of despotism, and a willingness to interfere
with Russia and Austria on behalf of absolute government. The jealousy of the House of Commons
would not long bear such a policy.

Be that as it may, Lord Stanley has opened a beginning of strife, which may last for many years
to come.

    [Footnote 18: Lord Stanley's Motion of Censure was carried by
    a majority of 37 in a House of 301.]

[Pageheading: LORD STANLEY'S MOTION]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 21st June 1850.

The Queen has received Lord John Russell's letter and read his speech in the House of Commons.
She regrets exceedingly the position in which the Government has been placed by the Motion
of Lord Stanley in the House of Lords. Whichever way the Debate in the House of Commons may
terminate, the Queen foresees great troubles. A defeat of the Government would be most inconvenient.
The Queen has always approved the general tendency of the policy of the Government to let despotism
and democracy fight out their battles abroad, but must remind Lord John that in the execution
of this policy Lord Palmerston has gone a long way in taking up the side of democracy in the
fight, and this is the "detail of negotiations" which Lord John is afraid may be confounded
with the general principle of our Foreign Policy. Indeed it is already confounded by the whole
of the foreign and the great majority of the British public, and it is to be feared that the
discussion will place despotic and democratic principles in array against each other in this
country, whilst the original question turns only upon the justice of Don Pacifico's claims.

Lord John Russell deeply regrets that your Majesty should be exposed to inconvenience in consequence
of Lord Stanley's Motion. He has copied Mr Roebuck's Motion as it now stands on the votes.
The word "principles" includes the general policy, and excludes the particular measures which
from time to time have been adopted as the objects of approbation.

It is impossible to say at this moment what will be the result. Lord Stanley, Lord Aberdeen,
Mr Gladstone, and Mr Disraeli appear to be in close concert.

Lord Stanley can hardly now abandon Protection. Mr Gladstone, one should imagine, can hardly
abandon Free Trade. The anger of the honest Protectionists and the honest Free-Traders will
be very great at so unprincipled a coalition.

Mr Roebuck's Motion: That the principles on which the Foreign Policy of Her Majesty's Government
has been regulated have been such as were calculated to maintain the honour and dignity of
this country, and in times of unexampled difficulty to preserve peace between England and the
various nations of the world.

[Pageheading: HOLSTEIN AND GERMANY]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 22nd June 1850.

The Queen has received Lord Palmerston's letter of yesterday, but cannot say that his arguments
in support of his former opinion, that the Germanic Confederation should be omitted from amongst
the Powers who are to be invited to sign a protocol, the object of which is to decide upon
the fate of Holstein, have proved successful in convincing her of the propriety of this course.
As Holstein belongs to the Germanic Confederation and is only accidentally connected with Denmark
through its Sovereign, a Protocol to ensure the integrity of the Danish Monarchy is a direct
attack upon Germany, if carried out without her knowledge and consent; and it is an act repugnant
to all feelings of justice and morality for third parties to dispose of other people's property,
which no diplomatic etiquette about the difficulty of finding a proper representative for Germany
could justify. The mode of representation might safely be left to the Confederation itself.
It is not surprising to the Queen that Austria and Prussia should complain of Lord Palmerston's
agreeing with Sweden, Russia, Denmark, and France upon the Protocol before giving Prussia and
Austria any notice of it.

[Pageheading: THE PROTOCOL]

Viscount Palmerston to Lord John Russell.

CARLTON GARDENS, 23rd June 1850.

MY DEAR JOHN RUSSELL,--The Queen has entirely misconceived the object and effect of the proposed
Protocol. It does not "decide upon the fate of Holstein," nor is it "an attack upon Germany."
In fact, the Protocol is to decide nothing; it is to be merely a record of the wishes and opinions
of the Power whose representatives are to sign it....[19]

How does any part of this decide the fate of Holstein or attack Germany?

Is not the Queen requiring that I should be Minister, not indeed for Austria, Russia, or France,
but for the Germanic Confederation? Why should we take up the cudgels for Germany, when we
are inviting Austria and Prussia, the two leading powers of Germany, and who would of course
put in a claim for the Confederation if they thought it necessary, which, however, for the
reasons above stated, they surely would not?...

As to my having agreed with Sweden, Russia, Denmark, and France before communicating with Prussia
and Austria, that is not the course which things have taken. Brunnow proposed the Protocol
to me, and I have been in discussion with him about it. It is he who has communicated it to
the French Ambassador, to Reventlow, and to Rehausen; I sent it privately several weeks ago
to Westmorland, that he might show it confidentially to Schleinitz, but telling Westmorland
that it was not a thing settled, but only a proposal by Russia, and that, at all events, some
part of the wording would be altered. I have no doubt that Brunnow has also shown it to Koller;
but I could not send it officially to Berlin or Vienna till Brunnow had agreed to such a wording
as I could recommend the Government to adopt, nor until I received the Queen's sanction to do so.

The only thing that occurs to me as practicable would be to say to Austria and Prussia that
if, in signing the Protocol, they could add that they signed also in the name of the Confederation,
we should be glad to have the additional weight of that authority, but that could not be made
a sine quâ non, any more than the signature of Austria and Prussia themselves, for I think
that the Protocol ought to be signed by as many of the proposed Powers as may choose to agree
to it, bearing always in mind that it is only a record of opinions and wishes, and does not
decide or pretend to decide anything practically. Yours sincerely,

PALMERSTON.

    [Footnote 19: The Protocol was to record the desirability
    of the following points:--(1) that the several states which
    constituted the Danish Monarchy should remain united, and
    that the Danish Crown should be settled in such manner that it
    should go with the Duchy of Holstein; (2) that the signatory
    Powers, when the peace should have been concluded, should
    concert measures for the purpose of giving to the results
    an additional pledge of stability, by a general European
    acknowledgment.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S OPINION]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell. The misconception on the Queen's part, which Lord Palmerston
alleges to exist, consists in her taking the essence of the arrangement for the mere words.
Lord Palmerston pretends that the Protocol "does not decide upon the fate of Holstein nor attack
Germany." However, the only object of the Protocol is the fate of Holstein, which is decided upon--

(1.) By a declaration of the importance to the interests of Europe to uphold the integrity
of the Danish Monarchy (which has no meaning, if it does not mean that Holstein is to remain
with it).

(2.) By an approval of the efforts of the King of Denmark to keep it with Denmark, by adapting
the law of succession to that of Holstein.

(3.) By an engagement on the part of the Powers to use their "soins" to get the constitutional
position of Holstein settled in a peace according to the Malmoe preliminaries, of which it
was one of the conditions that the question of the succession was to be left untouched.

(4.) To seal the whole arrangement by an act of European acknowledgment.

If the declarations of importance, the approval, the "soins" and the acknowledgments of all
the great Powers of Europe are to decide nothing, then Lord Palmerston is quite right; if they
decide anything, it is the fate of Holstein.

Whether this will be an attack upon Germany or not will be easily deduced from the fact that
the attempt on the part of Denmark to incorporate into her polity the Duchy of Schleswig was
declared by the Diet in 1846 to be a declaration of war against Germany merely on account of
its intimate connection with the Duchy of Holstein.

The Queen does not wish her Minister to be Minister for Germany, but merely to treat that country
with the same consideration which is due to every country on whose interests we mean to decide.

The Queen would wish her correspondence upon this subject to be brought before the Cabinet,
and will abide by their deliberate opinion.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 25th June 1850.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Charles will have told you how kindly and amiably the Prince of Prussia
has come here, travelling night and day from St Petersburg, in order to be in time for the
christening of our little Arthur.[20] I wish you could (and you will, for he intends stopping
at Brussels) hear him speak, for he is so straightforward, conciliatory, and yet firm of purpose;
I have a great esteem and respect for him. The poor King of Prussia is recovered,[21] and has
been received with great enthusiasm on the first occasion of his first reappearance in public.

We are in a crisis, no one knowing how this debate upon this most unfortunate Greek business
will end. It is most unfortunate, for whatever way it ends, it must do great harm.

I must now conclude, for I am quite overpowered by the heat. Ever your truly devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 20: The present Duke of Connaught, born on the 1st
    of May, the birthday of the Duke of Wellington, who was one of
    the sponsors, and after whom he was named.]

    [Footnote 21: From an attempt to assassinate him.]

[Pageheading: THE DON PACIFICO DEBATE]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 26th June 1850.

The cheering was frequent and enthusiastic. The debate was adjourned till Thursday, when it
will probably close.

The expectation is that Ministers will have a majority, but on the amount of that majority
must depend their future course.

Ministers ought to have a majority of forty to justify their remaining in office.[23]

Mr Gladstone makes no secret of his wish to join Lord Stanley in forming an Administration.

Lord John Russell would desire to have the honour of an audience of your Majesty on Saturday
at twelve or one o'clock.

The division will not take place till to-morrow night.

    [Footnote 23: In the result, Ministers succeeded by 310 to
    264, although opposed to them in the debate were Mr Gladstone,
    Mr Cobden, Sir Robert Peel, Mr Disraeli, Sir James Graham,
    and Sir William Molesworth.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--For two most kind and affectionate letters I offer my warmest and best thanks.
The good report of my beloved Louise's improvement is a great happiness. By my letter to Louise
you will have learnt all the details of this certainly very disgraceful and very inconceivable
attack.[24] I have not suffered except from my head, which is still very tender, the blow having
been extremely violent, and the brass end of the stick fell on my head so as to make a considerable
noise. I own it makes me nervous out driving, and I start at any person coming near the carriage,
which I am afraid is natural. We have, alas! now another cause of much greater anxiety in the
person of our excellent Sir Robert Peel,[25] who, as you will see, has had a most serious fall,
and though going on well at first, was very ill last night; thank God! he is better again this
morning, but I fear still in great danger. I cannot bear even to think of losing him; it would
be the greatest loss for the whole country, and irreparable for us, for he is so trustworthy,
and so entirely to be depended on. All parties are in great anxiety about him. I will leave
my letter open to give you the latest news.

Our good and amiable guest[26] likes being with us, and will remain with us till Saturday.
We had a concert last night, and go to the opera very regularly. The Prophète is quite beautiful,
and I am sure would delight you. The music in the Scène du Couronnement is, I think, finer
than anything in either Robert or the Huguenots; it is highly dramatic, and really very touching.
Mario sings and acts in it quite in perfection. His Raoul in the Huguenots is also most beautiful.
He improves every year, and I really think his voice is the finest tenor I ever heard, and
he sings and acts with such intense feeling.

What do you say to the conclusion of our debate? It leaves things just as they were. The House
of Commons is becoming very unmanageable and troublesome....

I must now conclude. With Albert's love, ever your most affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

I am happy to say that Sir Robert, though still very ill, is freer from pain, his pulse is
less high, and he feels himself better; the Doctors think there is no vital injury, and nothing
from which he cannot recover, but that he must be for some days in a precarious state.

    [Footnote 24: The Queen, as she was leaving Cambridge House,
    where she had called to inquire after the Duke of Cambridge's
    health, was struck with a cane by one Robert Pate, an
    ex-officer, and a severe bruise was inflicted on her forehead.
    The outrage was apparently committed without motive, but an
    attempt to prove Pate insane failed, and he was sentenced to
    seven years' transportation.]

    [Footnote 25: On the day following the Don Pacifico debate,
    Sir Robert Peel, after attending a meeting of the Exhibition
    Commissioners, had gone out riding. On his return, while
    passing up Constitution Hill, he was thrown from his horse,
    and, after lingering three days in intense pain, died on the
    5th of July.]

    [Footnote 26: The Prince of Prussia.]

[Pageheading: THE KING OF DENMARK]

The King of Denmark to Queen Victoria.

COPENHAGUE, 4 Juillet 1850.

MADAME MA S[OE]UR,--Je remplis un devoir des plus agréables, en m'empressant d'annoncer à votre
Majesté que la paix vient d'être signée le 2 de ce mois à Berlin entre moi et Sa Majesté le
Roi de Prusse, en Son nom et en celui de la Confédération Germanique.[27]

Je sais et je reconnais de grand c[oe]ur combien je suis redevable à votre Majesté et à Son
Gouvernement de ce résultat important, qui justifie mon espérance de pouvoir bientôt rendre
à tous mes sujets les bienfaits d'une sincère réconciliation et d'une véritable concorde.

Votre Majesté a par la sollicitude avec laquelle Elle a constamment accompli le mandat de la
médiation dans l'intérêt du Danemark et de l'Europe, ajouté aux témoignages inappréciables
de sincère amitié qu'elle n'a cessé de m'accorder durant la longue et pénible épreuve que le
Danemark vient de nouveau de traverser, mais qui paraît, à l'aide du Tout-Puissant, devoir
maintenant faire place à un meilleur avenir, offrant, sous les auspices de votre Majesté, de
nouvelles garanties pour l'indépendance de mon antique Couronne et pour le maintien de l'intégrité
de ma Monarchie, à la défense desquelles je me suis voué entièrement.

Je suis persuadé que votre Majesté me fera la justice de croire que je suis on ne peut plus
reconnaissant, et que mon peuple fidèle et loyal s'associe à moi et aux miens, pénétré de ces
mêmes sentiments de gratitude envers votre Majesté.

    [Footnote 27: Denmark and the Schleswig-Holstein Duchies were
    still at war. Germany was bent on absorbing the Duchies, but
    Prussia now concluded a peace with Denmark: the enlistment of
    individual Germans in the insurgent army continued.]

[Pageheading: DEATH OF PEEL]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 5th July 1850.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--It gave me the greatest pain to learn of the death of our true and kind
friend, Sir Robert Peel. That he should have met with his end--he so valuable to the whole
earth--from an accident so easily to be avoided with some care, is the more to be lamented.
You and Albert lose in him a friend whose moderation, correct judgment, great knowledge of
everything connected with the country, can never be found again. Europe had in him a benevolent
and a truly wise statesman....

Give my best thanks to Albert for his kind letter. I mean to send a messenger probably on Sunday
or Monday to write to him. I pity him about the great Exhibition. I fear he will be much plagued,
and I was glad to see that the matter is to be treated in Parliament. Alas! in all human affairs
one is sure to meet with violent passions, and Peel knew that so well; great care even for
the most useful objects is necessary.

I will write to you a word to-morrow. God grant that it may be satisfactory.[28] Ever, my beloved,
dear Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 28: The Princess Charlotte of Belgium was seriously
    ill.]

Queen Victoria to the King of Prussia.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 6th July 1850.

SIRE, MY MOST HONOURED BROTHER,--I have to express to you my thanks for the pleasure which
the visit of your dear brother has given us, who, as I hope, will remit these lines to you
in perfect health. That things go so well with you, and that the healing of your wound has
made undisturbed progress, has been to us a true removal of anxiety. You will no doubt have
learnt that I too have been again the object of an attempt, if possible still more cowardly.
The criminal is, as usual, this time too, insane, or will pretend to be so; still the deed remains.

All our feelings are, in the meanwhile, preoccupied by the sorrow, in which your Majesty and
all Europe will share, at the death of Sir Robert Peel. That is one of the hardest blows of
Fate which could have fallen on us and on the country. You knew the great man, and understood
how to appreciate his merit. His value is now becoming clear even to his opponents; all Parties
are united in mourning.

The only satisfactory event of recent times is the news of your conclusion of peace with Denmark.
Accept my most cordial congratulations on that account.

Requesting you to remember me cordially to the dear Queen, and referring you for detailed news
to the dear Prince, also recommending to your gracious remembrance Albert, who does not wish
to trouble you, on his part, with a letter, I remain, in unchangeable friendship, dear Brother,
your Majesty's faithful Sister,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: DEATH OF THE DUKE OF CAMBRIDGE]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 9th July 1850.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--We live in the midst of sorrow and death! My poor good Uncle Cambridge breathed
his last, without a struggle, at a few minutes before ten last night. I still saw him yesterday
morning at one, but he did not see me, and to-day I saw him lifeless and cold. The poor Duchess
and the poor children are very touching in their grief, and poor Augusta,[29] who arrived just
five hours too late, is quite heartbroken. The end was most peaceful; there was no disease;
only a gastric fever, which came on four weeks ago, from over-exertion, and cold, and which
he neglected for the first week, carried him off.

The good Prince of Prussia you will have been pleased to talk to and see. Having lived with
him for a fortnight on a very intimate footing, we have been able to appreciate his real worth
fully; he is so honest and frank, and so steady of purpose and courageous.

Poor dear Peel is to be buried to-day. The sorrow and grief at his death are most touching,
and the country mourns over him as over a father. Every one seems to have lost a personal friend.

As I have much to write, you will forgive me ending here. You will be glad to hear that poor
Aunt Gloucester is wonderfully calm and resigned. My poor dear Albert, who had been so fresh
and well when we came back, looks so pale and fagged again.

May God bless and protect you all, you dear ones! Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 29: See ante, vol. i. p. 437.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 19th July 1850.

Before this draft to Lord Bloomfield about Greece is sent, it would be well to consider whether
Lord Palmerston is justified in calling the Minister of the Interior of Greece "a notorious
defaulter to the amount of 200,000 drachms,"[30] and should he be so, whether it is a proper
thing for the Queen's Foreign Secretary to say in a public despatch!

    [Footnote 30: The Convention of the 18th of April (see ante,
    p. 242, note 1) had decided that £8500 should be distributed
    among the claimants, and that Don Pacifico's special claim
    against Portugal should be referred to arbitration. Ultimately
    he was awarded only an insignificant sum.]

[Pageheading: THE FOREIGN OFFICE]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

OSBORNE, 28th July 1850.

The Queen will have much pleasure in seeing the Duke and Duchess of Bedford here next Saturday,
and we have invited them. She will be quite ready to hear the Duke's opinions on the Foreign
Office. Lord John may be sure that she fully admits the great difficulties in the way of the
projected alteration, but she, on the other hand, feels the duty she owes to the country and
to herself, not to allow a man in whom she can have no confidence, who has conducted himself
in anything but a straightforward and proper manner to herself, to remain in the Foreign Office,
and thereby to expose herself to insults from other nations, and the country to the constant
risk of serious and alarming complications. The Queen considers these reasons as much graver
than the other difficulties. Each time that we were in a difficulty, the Government seemed
to be determined to move Lord Palmerston, and as soon as these difficulties were got over,
those which present themselves in the carrying out of this removal appeared of so great a magnitude
as to cause its relinquishment. There is no chance of Lord Palmerston reforming himself in
his sixty-seventh year, and after having considered his last escape as a triumph.... The Queen
is personally convinced that Lord Palmerston at this moment is secretly planning an armed Russian
intervention in Schleswig, which may produce a renewal of revolutions in Germany, and possibly
a general war.

The Queen only adduces this as an instance that there is no question of delicacy and danger
in which Lord Palmerston will not arbitrarily and without reference to his colleagues or Sovereign
engage this country.

Queen Victoria to the King of Denmark.

OSBORNE, 29 Juillet 1850.

SIRE ET MON BON FRÈRE,--La lettre dont votre Majesté a bien voulu m'honorer m'a causé un bien
vif plaisir comme témoignage que votre Majesté a su apprécier les sentiments d'amitié pour
vous et le désir d'agir avec impartialité qui m'ont animée ainsi que mon Gouvernement pendant
tout le cours des longues négociations qui out précédé la signature de la Paix avec l'Allemagne.
Votre Majesté peut aisément comprendre aussi combien je dois regretter le renouvellement de
la guerre avec le Schleswig qui ne pourra avoir d'autre résultat que l'accroissement de l'animosité
et l'affaiblissement des deux nobles peuples sur lesquels vous régnez. Dieu veuille que cette
dernière lutte se termine pourtant dans une réconciliation solide, basée sur la reconnaissance
des droits et des obligations des deux côtés. Je me trouve poussée à vous soumettre ici, Sire,
une prière pour un Prince qui s'est malheureusement trouvé en conflit avec votre Majesté, mais
pour lequel les liens de parenté me portent à plaider, le Duc de Holstein-Augustenburg. Je
suis persuadée que la magnanimité de votre Majesté lui rendra ses biens particuliers, qu'elle
a jugé nécessaire de lui ôter pendant la guerre de 1848, ce que je reconnaîtrais bien comme
une preuve d'amitié de la part de votre Majesté envers moi.

OSBORNE, 31st July 1850.

The Queen must draw Lord John Russell's attention to the accompanying draft[31] with regard
to Schleswig, which is evidently intended to lay the ground for future foreign armed intervention.
This is to be justified by considering the assistance which the Stadthalterschaft of Holstein
may be tempted to give to their Schleswig brethren "as an invasion of Schleswig by a German force."

Lord John seems himself to have placed a "?" against that passage. This is, after two years'
negotiation and mediation, begging the question at issue. The whole war--Revolution, mediation,
etc., etc.--rested upon the question whether Schleswig was part of Holstein (though not of
the German Confederation), or part of Denmark and not of Holstein. There is nothing in the
management of these parks by the Woods and Forests which does not equally apply to all the
others, as Greenwich, Hampton Court, Richmond, etc. There is certainly a degree of inconvenience
in the divided authority, but this is amply compensated by the advantage to the Crown, in appearance
at least, to keep up an authority emanating personally from the Sovereign, and unconnected
with a Government Department which is directly answerable to the House of Commons. The last
debate upon Hyde Park has, moreover, shown that it will not be safe not to remind the public
of the fact that the parks are Royal property. As the Ranger has no power over money, the management
will always remain with the Office of Woods.

[Pageheading: SIR CHARLES NAPIER RESIGNS]

The Duke of Wellington to Queen Victoria.

LONDON, 3rd August 1850. He regrets to be under the necessity of submitting to your Majesty
the enclosed letter from General Sir Charles Napier, G.C.B., in which he tenders his resignation
of the office of Commander-in-Chief of your Majesty's Forces in the East Indies.[32]

Upon the receipt of this paper Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington considered it to be his
duty to peruse all the papers submitted by Sir Charles Napier; to survey the transaction which
had occasioned the censure of the Governor-General in Council complained of by Sir Charles
Napier; to require from the India House all the information which could throw light upon the
conduct complained of, as well as upon the motives alleged for it; the reasons given on account
of which it was stated to be necessary.

He has stated in a minute, a memorandum of which he submits the copy to your Majesty, his views
and opinions upon the whole subject, and the result which he submits to your Majesty is that
he considers it his duty humbly to submit to your Majesty that your Majesty should be graciously
pleased to accept the resignation of General Sir Charles Napier thus tendered.

Before he should submit this recommendation to your Majesty in relation to an office of such
high reputation in so high and important a station, Field-Marshal the Duke of Wellington considered
it his duty to submit his views to your Majesty's servants, who have expressed their concurrence
in his opinion.

It is probable that the President of the Board of Control will lay before your Majesty the
papers transmitted to the Secret Committee of the Court of Directors, by the Governor-General
in Council, which are adverted to in the paper drawn up by the Duke, and of which the substance
alone is stated.

    [Footnote 32: This was in consequence of Sir Charles Napier's
    action in exercising powers belonging to the Supreme Council,
    on the occasion of a mutiny of a regiment of the Native Army.]

[Pageheading: PALMERSTON'S CONDUCT OF AFFAIRS]

[Pageheading: A POSSIBLE RE-ARRANGEMENT]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

OSBORNE, 5th August 1850.

Lord John Russell having lately stated that Lord Clarendon, who had always been most eager
to see Lord Palmerston moved, had lately expressed to him his opinion that it would be most
dangerous and impolitic to do so under present circumstances, we thought it right to see Lord
Clarendon here.... In conversation with me, Lord Clarendon spoke in his old strain of Lord
Palmerston, but very strongly also of the danger of turning him out and making him the leader
of the Radicals, who were anxiously waiting for that, were much dissatisfied with Lord John
Russell, and free from control by the death of Sir Robert Peel. I said that if everything was
done with Lord Palmerston's consent there would be no danger, to which Lord Clarendon assented,
but doubted that he would consent to giving up what was his hobby. He added, nobody but Lord
John could carry on the Foreign Affairs, but he ought not to leave the House of Commons under
present circumstances, where he was now the only authority left.

We saw the Duke of Bedford yesterday, whom Lord John had wished us to invite. He is very unhappy
about the present state of affairs, frightened about things going on as at present, when Lord
John can exercise no control over Lord Palmerston, and the Queen is exposed year after year
to the same annoyances and dangers arising from Lord Palmerston's mode of conducting the affairs;
but on the other hand, equally frightened at turning him loose. The Duke was aware of all that
had passed between us and Lord John, and ready to do anything he could to bring matters to
a satisfactory solution, but thought his brother would not like to leave the House of Commons
now. He had very much changed his opinion on that head latterly, and the more so as he thought
something ought to be done next year with the franchise, which he alone could carry through.
On my questioning whether it was impossible to persuade him to take the Foreign Office and
stay in the Lower House, with a first-rate under-secretary, at least for a time, the Duke thought
he might perhaps temporarily, as he felt he owed to the Queen the solution of the difficulty,
but expressed again his fears of Lord Palmerston's opposition. I replied that if Lord John
would make up his mind to take the Foreign Office, and to stay in the House of Commons, I saw
no danger, as Lord John would be able to maintain himself successfully, and Lord Palmerston
would not like to be in opposition to him, whilst he would become most formidable to anybody
who was to gain only the leadership in the House; moreover, Lord John, having done so much
for Lord Palmerston, could expect and demand a return of sacrifice, and a variety of posts
might be offered to him--the Presidency of the Council, the office of Home Secretary, or Secretary
for the Colonies, Chancellor of the Exchequer, etc., etc., which places I was sure any member
of the Cabinet would vacate for him. The Duke of Bedford added the Lieutenancy of Ireland,
as Lord Clarendon had told him he was ready to give it up for the purpose, but only under one
condition, viz. that of not having to succeed to Lord Palmerston at the Foreign Office. Observing
our surprise at this declaration, the Duke added that Lord Clarendon acted most considerately,
that he was ready to have no office at all, and would support the Government independently
in the House of Lords if this were to facilitate arrangements. The Queen rejoined that a peerage
was of course also at Lord John's disposal for Lord Palmerston. We then agreed that Lord Granville
would be the best person to become Lord John's Under-Secretary of State, a man highly popular,
pleasing, conciliatory, well versed in Foreign Affairs, and most industrious; trained under
Lord John, he could at any time leave him the office altogether, if Lord John should find it
too much for himself. Lord Granville had a higher office now, that of Vice-President of the
Board of Trade and Paymaster-General, but would be sure to feel the importance of taking a
lower office under such circumstances and with such contingencies likely to depend upon it.
I have seen a great deal of him latterly, as he is the only working man on the Commission for
the Exhibition of 1851, and have found him most able, good-natured, and laborious. The Duke
liked the proposal very much, and is going to communicate all that passed between us to Lord
John on Tuesday.

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: PALMERSTON'S POSITION]

[Pageheading: PALMERSTON'S JUSTIFICATION]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

OSBORNE, 8th August 1850.

Lord John Russell came down here yesterday in order to report to the Queen what had passed
between him and Lord Palmerston the day before, on whom he had called in order to have an explanation
on the Foreign Affairs.

Lord John reminded him of former communications, but admitted that circumstances were much
changed by the recent debates in both Houses of Parliament; still, it was necessary to come
to an understanding of the position. The policy pursued with regard to the Foreign Affairs
had been right and such as had the approval of Lord John himself, the Cabinet generally, and
he believed the greater part of the country. But the manner in which it had been executed had
been unfortunate, led to irritation and hostility; although peace had actually been preserved,
and England stood in a position requiring no territorial aggrandisement or advantage of any
kind, yet all Governments and Powers, not only Russia and Austria, but also France and the
liberal states, had become decidedly hostile to us, and our intercourse was not such as was
desirable. Lord John could instance many cases in which they had been unnecessarily slighted
and provoked by Lord Palmerston, like M. Drouyn de Lhuys in the Greek affair. Lord Palmerston's
conduct towards the Queen had been disrespectful and wanting in due attention and deference
to her, and had been much complained of.

In consequence of all this Lord John had before proposed to Her Majesty that the Foreign Affairs
should be entrusted to Lord Minto, he himself should go to the House of Lords, and Lord Palmerston
should have the lead in the House of Commons. The Queen had, however, objected to this arrangement,
[thinking] the lead in the Lower House to be more properly given to Sir George Grey, who had
as Home Secretary conducted all internal business in the House. Now had come Sir R. Peel's
death, which made it impossible for Lord John to leave the House of Commons without endangering
the position of Government and of the parties in the House.

Lord Palmerston was much pleased to hear of Lord John's intention to stay in the House of Commons,
said all was changed now; there had been a great conspiracy against him, he had been accused
in Parliament, put on his trial and acquitted. The acquittal had produced the greatest enthusiasm
for him in the country, and he was now supported by a strong party; he owned, however, that
his success had been chiefly owing to the handsome manner in which Lord John and his colleagues
had supported him in the debate. That he should incur the momentary enmity of those states
whose interests and plans he might have to cross was quite natural; he had never intended any
disrespect to the Queen, and if he had been guilty of any he was quite unconscious of it and
sorry for it.

Lord John reminded him that although the Government had got a majority in the House of Commons
in the Foreign debate, it was not to be forgotten that the fate of the Government had been
staked upon it, and that many people voted on that account who would not have supported the
Foreign policy; that it was remarkable that all those who had the strongest reason to be anxious
for the continuance of the Government, but who could not avoid speaking, were obliged to speak
and vote against the Government. Sir R. Peel's speech was a most remarkable instance of this.

Lord Palmerston saw in Sir Robert's speech nothing but a reluctant effort to defend Lord Aberdeen,
whom he was bound to defend. If he (Lord Palmerston) were to leave the Foreign Office, there
must be a ground for it, such as his having to take the lead in the House of Commons, which
was evidently impossible with the conduct of Foreign Department at the same time. (It had killed
Mr Canning, and after that failure nobody ought to attempt it.) But without such a ground it
would be loss of character to him, which he could not be expected to submit to. There was not
even the excuse of wishing to avoid a difficulty with a foreign country, as all was smooth
now. Those who had wished to injure him had been beat, and now it would be giving them a triumph
after all. If the Queen or the Cabinet were dissatisfied with his management of the Foreign
Affairs, they had a right to demand his resignation, and he would give it, but they could not
ask him to lower himself in public estimation. Lord John answered that his resignation would
lead to a further split of parties: there were parties already enough in the House, and it
was essential that at least the Whig party should be kept together, to which Lord Palmerston
assented. He (Lord Palmerston) then repeated his complaints against that plot which had been
got up in this country against him, and urged on by foreigners, complained particularly of
Lord Clarendon, Mr Greville of the Privy Council, Mr Reeve, ditto, and their attacks upon him
in the Times, and of Mr Delane, the Editor of the Times, of Guizot, Princess Lieven, etc.,
etc., etc. However, they had been convinced that they could not upset him, and Mr Reeve had
declared to him that he had been making open and honourable (?!!) war upon him; now he would
make a lasting peace. With Russia and France he (Lord Palmerston) had just been signing the
Danish Protocol, showing that they were on the best terms together.

Lord John felt he could not press the matter further under these circumstances, but he seemed
much provoked at the result of his conversation. We expressed our surprise that he had not
made Lord Palmerston any offer of any kind. Lord John replied he had not been sure what he
could have offered him....

ALBERT.

[Pageheading: DUTIES OF THE FOREIGN SECRETARY]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.[33]

OSBORNE, 12th August 1850.

    [Footnote 33: Compare the memorandum suggested by Baron
    Stockmar, ante, p. 238. This letter was, after much
    forbearance, written in the hope of bringing Lord Palmerston
    to a proper understanding of his relation to the Sovereign.
    Even when the catastrophe came, and its tenor had to be
    communicated by the Premier to Parliament, the Preamble was
    generously omitted; but in consequence of its description by
    Lord Palmerston, in a letter published by Mr Ashley, as an
    angry memorandum, it was printed in full in The Life of the
    Prince Consort.]

Viscount Palmerston to Lord John Russell.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 13th August 1850.

MY DEAR JOHN RUSSELL,--I have taken a copy of this memorandum of the Queen and will not fail
to attend to the directions which it contains. With regard to the sending of despatches to
the Queen, they have sometimes been delayed longer than should have been the case, in consequence
of my having been prevented by great pressure of business, and by the many interruptions of
interviews, etc., to which I am liable, from reading and sending them back into the Office
so soon as I could have wished. But I will give orders that the old practice shall be reverted
to, of making copies of all important despatches as soon as they reach the Office, so that
there may be no delay in sending the despatches to the Queen; this practice was gradually left
off as the business of the Office increased, and if it shall require an additional clerk or
two you must be liberal and allow me that assistance.--Yours sincerely,

PALMERSTON.

[Pageheading: DEATH OF LOUIS PHILIPPE]

The Duc de Nemours to Queen Victoria.

CLAREMONT, 26 Août 1850.

MADAME MA CHÈRE COUSINE,--La main de Dieu vient de s'appesantir sur nous. Le Roi notre Père
n'est plus.[34] Après avoir reçu hier avec calme et résignation les secours de la religion,
il s'est éteint ce matin à huit heures au milieu de nous tous. Vous le connaissiez ma chère
Cousine, vous savez tout ce que nous perdons, vous comprendrez donc l'inexprimable douleur
dans laquelle nous sommes plongés; vous la partagerez même je le sais!

La Reine brisée, malgré son courage, ne trouve de soulagement que dans une retraite absolue
où ne voyant personne elle puisse laisser cours à sa douleur.

Veuillez faire part à Albert de notre malheur et recevoir ici, ma chère Cousine, l'hommage
des sentiments de respect et d'attachement, de votre bien affectionné Cousin,

LOUIS D'ORLÉANS.

    [Footnote 34: King Louis Philippe was in his seventy-seventh
    year when he died: his widow, Queen Marie Amélie, lived till
    1866, when she died at the age of eighty-four.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 26th August 1850.

The Queen wishes Lord Palmerston to give directions for a Court mourning according to those
which are usual for an abdicated King. She likewise wishes that every assistance should be
given, and every attention shown to the afflicted Royal Family, who have been so severely tried
during the last two years, on the melancholy occasion of the poor King of the French's death.

The Queen starts for Scotland to-morrow.

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 30 August 1850.

... I have offered to the poor Queen of the French to remain at Claremont and d'en disposer
as long as Heaven does not dispose of myself. She, of course, dislikes the place, but will
keep the family with her at least for some time.

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

TAYMOUTH CASTLE, 5th September 1850.

Lord John Russell presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and was happy to receive your Majesty's
gracious letter, which reached him the night before last.

The proofs of attachment to your Majesty, which are everywhere exhibited, are the more gratifying
as they are entirely spontaneous.

It is fit and becoming that your Majesty should inhabit the royal Palace of Holyrood, and this
circumstance gives great satisfaction throughout Scotland.

Lord John Russell is glad to learn that the family of the late King of the French will continue
to reside in England.

The reflection naturally occurs, if Napoleon and Louis Philippe were unable to consolidate
a dynasty in France, who will ever be able to do it? The prospect is a succession of fruitless
attempts at civil Government till a General assumes the command, and governs by military force.

[Pageheading: THE POET LAUREATE]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

DUNKELD, 7th September 1850.

... Lord John Russell has had the honour of receiving at Taymouth a letter from the Prince.
He agrees that the office of Poet Laureate ought to be filled up. There are three or four authors
of nearly equal merit, such as Henry Taylor, Sheridan Knowles, Professor Wilson, and Mr Tennyson,
who are qualified for the office.

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

OSTEND, 7th October 1850.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I write a few words only to tell you how our dear patient is.[35] Yesterday
was a most perilous, truly dreadful day; our dear angelic Louise was so fainting that Madame
d'Hulst, who was with her, felt the greatest alarm. She afterwards was better, and her mother,
Clém, Joinville, and Aumale having arrived, she saw them with more composure than could have
been expected. Still, she would in fact wish to be left quiet and alone with me, and we try
to manage things as much as possible so that their visit does not tire her too much.

Her courage and strength of mind are most heart-breaking when one thinks of the danger in which
she is, and her dear and angelic soul seems even to shine more brightly at this moment of such
great and imminent danger. I am in a dreadful state when I am with her. She is so contented,
so cheerful, that the possibilities of danger appear to me impossible; but the physicians are
very much alarmed, without thinking the state absolutely hopeless. That one should write such
things about a life so precious, and one in fact still so young, and whose angelic soul is
so strong! You will feel with me as you love her so dearly. God bless you and preserve you
from heart-breaking sufferings like mine. Ever, my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 35: The Queen of the Belgians died on the 11th of
    October, at the age of thirty-eight.]

[Pageheading: GENERAL HAYNAU]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

BROADLANDS, 8th October 1850.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has had the honour to receive
your Majesty's communication of the 4th instant, expressing your Majesty's wish that an alteration
should be made in his answer to Baron Koller's[36] note of the 5th of September, on the subject
of the attack made upon General Haynau;[37] but Viscount Palmerston begs to state that when
Baron Koller was at this place about ten days ago, he expressed so much annoyance at the delay
which had already taken place in regard to the answer to his note of the 5th September, and
he requested so earnestly that he might immediately have the reply, that Viscount Palmerston
could do no otherwise than send him the answer at once, and Baron Koller despatched it the
next day to Vienna.

Viscount Palmerston had put the last paragraph into the answer, because he could scarcely have
reconciled it to his own feelings and to his sense of public responsibility to have put his
name to a note which might be liable to be called for by Parliament, without expressing in
it, at least as his own personal opinion, a sense of the want of propriety evinced by General
Haynau in coming to England at the present moment.[38]

The state of public feeling in this country about General Haynau and his proceedings in Italy
and Hungary was perfectly well known; and his coming here so soon after those events, without
necessity or obligation to do so, was liable to be looked upon as a bravado, and as a challenge
to an expression of public opinion.

Baron Koller indeed told Viscount Palmerston that Prince Metternich and Baron Neumann had at
Brussels strongly dissuaded General Haynau from coming on to England; and that he (Baron Koller)
had after his arrival earnestly entreated him to cut off those long moustachios which rendered
him so liable to be identified.

With regard to the transaction itself, there is no justifying a breach of the law, nor an attack
by a large number of people upon one or two individuals who cannot resist such superior force;
and though in the present case, according to Baron Koller's account, the chief injury sustained
by General Haynau consisted in the tearing of his coat, the loss of a cane, and some severe
bruises on his left arm, and though four or five policemen proved to be sufficient protection,
yet a mob who begin by insult lead each other on to outrage; and there is no saying to what
extremes they might have proceeded if they had not been checked.

Such occurrences, however, have taken place before; and to go no further back than the last
summer, the attacks on Lord Talbot at the Stafford meeting, and on Mr Bankes, Mr Sturt, and
others at the Dorchester meeting, when a man was killed, were still more violent outrages,
and originated simply in differences of political opinion; whereas in this case the brewers'
men were expressing their feeling at what they considered inhuman conduct on the part of General
Haynau.

The people of this country are remarkable for their hospitable reception of foreigners, and
for their forgetfulness of past animosities. Napoleon Bonaparte, the greatest enemy that England
ever had, was treated while at Plymouth with respect, and with commiseration while at St Helena.
Marshal Soult, who had fought in many battles against the English, was received with generous
acclamation when he came here as Special Ambassador. The King of the French, Mons. Guizot,
and Prince Metternich, though all of them great antagonists of English policy and English interests,
were treated in this country with courtesy and kindness. But General Haynau was looked upon
as a great moral criminal; and the feeling in regard to him was of the same nature as that
which was manifested towards Tawell[39] and the Mannings,[40] with this only difference, that
General Haynau's bad deeds were committed upon a far larger scale, and upon a far larger number
of victims. But Viscount Palmerston can assure your Majesty that those feelings of just and
honourable indignation have not been confined to England, for he had good reason to know that
General Haynau's ferocious and unmanly treatment of the unfortunate inhabitants of Brescia
and of other towns and places in Italy, his savage proclamations to the people of Pesth, and
his barbarous acts in Hungary excited almost as much disgust in Austria as in England, and
that the nickname of "General Hyæna" was given to him at Vienna long before it was applied
to him in London.

    [Footnote 36: The Austrian Ambassador.]

    [Footnote 37: General Haynau had earned in the Hungarian War
    an odious reputation as a flogger of women. When visiting the
    brewery of Barclay & Perkins, the draymen mobbed and
    assaulted him; he had to fly from them, and take refuge in a
    neighbouring house. Lord Palmerston had to send an official
    letter of apology to the Austrian Government, which, as
    originally despatched, without waiting for the Queen's
    approval, contained a paragraph offensive to Austria.]

    [Footnote 38: See Lord Palmerston's letter to Sir G. Grey,
    Ashley's Life of Lord Palmerston, vol. i. chap. vi.]

    [Footnote 39: Executed for the Salt Hill murder.]

    [Footnote 40: Marie Manning (an ex-lady's maid, whose career
    is said to have suggested Hortense in Bleak House to
    Dickens) was executed with her husband, in 1849, for the
    murder of a guest. She wore black satin on the scaffold, a
    material which consequently became unpopular for some time.]

[Pageheading: THE DRAFT DESPATCHED]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 11th October 1850.

The Queen having written to Lord Palmerston in conformity with Lord John Russell's suggestion
respecting the draft to Baron Koller, now encloses Lord Palmerston's answer, which she received
at Edinburgh yesterday evening. Lord John will see that Lord Palmerston has not only sent the
draft, but passes over in silence her injunction to have a corrected copy given to Baron Koller,
and adds a vituperation against General Haynau, which clearly shows that he is not sorry for
what has happened, and makes a merit of sympathising with the draymen at the brewery and the
Chartist Demonstrations....

The Queen encloses likewise a copy of her letter to Lord Palmerston, and hopes Lord John will
write to him.[41]

    [Footnote 41: Lord John insisted on the note being withdrawn,
    and another substituted with the offensive passage omitted.
    After threatening resignation, Lord Palmerston somewhat tamely
    consented.

    Lord John Russell wrote to the Prince Albert that he would be
    "somewhat amused, if not surprised, at the sudden and amicable
    termination of the dispute regarding the letter to Baron
    Koller. The same course may be adopted with advantage if a
    despatch is ever again sent which has been objected to, and
    to which the Queen's sanction has not been given." See the
    Queen's letter of the 19th of October.]

[Pageheading: LORD PALMERSTON CENSURED]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 12th October 1850.

The Queen has received Lord Palmerston's letter respecting the draft to Baron Koller. She cannot
suppose that Baron Koller addressed his note to Lord Palmerston in order to receive in answer
an expression of his own personal opinion; and if Lord Palmerston could not reconcile it to
his own feelings to express the regret of the Queen's Government at the brutal attack and wanton
outrage committed by a ferocious mob on a distinguished foreigner of past seventy years of
age, who was quietly visiting a private establishment in this metropolis, without adding his
censure of the want of propriety evinced by General Haynau in coming to England--he might have
done so in a private letter, where his personal feelings could not be mistaken for the opinion
of the Queen and her Government. She must repeat her request that Lord Palmerston will rectify
this.

The Queen can as little approve of the introduction of Lynch Law in this country as of the
violent vituperations with which Lord Palmerston accuses and condemns public men in other countries,
acting in most difficult circumstances and under heavy responsibility, without having the means
of obtaining correct information or of sifting evidence.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

OSBORNE, 16th October 1850.

The Queen is glad to hear from Lord Palmerston that he has given no countenance to the French
and Russian proposal at the suggestion of Denmark, that England, France, and Russia should,
after having signed the Protocol in favour of Denmark, now go further and send their armies
to aid her in her contest with Holstein.[42] The Queen does not expect any good result from
Lord Palmerston's counter proposal to urge Prussia and Austria to compel the Holsteiners to
lay down their arms. The mediating power ought rather to make Denmark feel that it requires
more than a cessation of hostilities, a plan of reconciliation, and a solution of the questions
in dispute, before she can hope permanently to establish peace. The mediating power itself,
however, should strive to arrive at some opinion on the matter in dispute, based, not on its
own supposed interests, as the Protocol is, but on an anxious, careful, and impartial investigation
of the rights and pretensions of the disputing parties; and if it finds it impossible to arrive
at such an opinion, to fix upon some impartial tribunal capable of doing so, to which the dispute
could be submitted for decision. Common principles of morality would point out such a course,
and what is morally right only can be politically wise.

    [Footnote 42: A strenuous attempt was being made by the Danish
    Government to bring pressure to bear on Austria and Prussia,
    to put down the nationalist movement in the Duchies, either by
    active intervention, or by reassembling the Conference
    which had negotiated the Treaty of Berlin. Lord Palmerston
    discountenanced both alternatives, but wrote to the Queen
    that he and the representatives of France, Russia, and Denmark
    thought that Austria and Prussia should be urged to take all
    feasible steps to put an end to the hostilities.]

[Pageheading: DEATH OF QUEEN LOUISE]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

OSBORNE, 18th October 1850.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--This was the day I always and for so many years wrote to her, to our adored
Louise, and I now write to you, to thank you for that heart-breaking, touching letter of the
16th, which you so very kindly wrote to me. It is so kind of you to write to us. What a day
Tuesday must have been! Welch einen Gang! and yesterday! My grief was so great again yesterday.
To talk of her is my greatest consolation!Let us all try to imitate her!My poor dear Uncle,
we wish so to be with you, to be of any use to you. You will allow us, in three or four weeks,
to go to you for two or three days, quite quietly and alone, to Laeken without any one, without
any reception anywhere, to cry with you and to talk with you of Her. It will be a great comfort
to us--a silent tribute of respect and love to her--to be able to mingle our tears with yours
over her tomb! And the affection of your two devoted children will perhaps be some slight balm.
My first impulse was to fly at once to you, but perhaps a few weeks' delay will be better.
It will be a great and melancholy satisfaction to us. Daily will you feel more, my poor dear
Uncle, the poignancy of your dreadful loss; my heart breaks in thinking of you and the poor
dear children. How beautiful it must be to see that your whole country weeps and mourns with
you! For this country and for your children you must try to bear up, and feel that in so doing
you are doing all SHE wished. If only we could be of use to you! if I could do anything for
dear little Charlotte, whom our blessed Louise talked of so often to me.

May I write to you on Fridays when I used to write to her, as well as on Tuesdays? You need
not answer me, and whenever it bores you to write to me, or you have no time, let one of the
dear children write to me.

May God bless and protect you ever, my beloved Uncle, is our anxious prayer. Embrace the dear
children in the name of one who has almost the feelings of a mother for them.

OSBORNE, 19th October 1850.

The Queen is very glad of the result of the conflict with Lord Palmerston, of which Lord John
Russell apprised her by his letter of yesterday's date. The correspondence, which the Queen
now returns, shows clearly that Lord Palmerston in this transaction, as in every other, remained
true to his principles of action.... But it shows also that Lord John has the power of exercising
that control over Lord Palmerston, the careful exercise of which he owes to the Queen, his
colleagues, and the country, if he will take the necessary pains to remain firm. The Queen
does not believe in resignation under almost any circumstances.

The Queen is very anxious about the Holstein question, and sends a copy of her last letter
to Lord Palmerston on the subject.

Lord John Russell to the Prince Albert.

PEMBROKE LODGE, 21st October 1850.

SIR,--I have just received this note from Lord Palmerston.[43]

The French Ambassador, who has been here, confirms the news. We must consider the whole affair
on Wednesday, and I shall be glad to learn what the Queen thinks can be done.

Mr Tennyson is a fit person to be Poet Laureate.

I have the honour to be, your Royal Highness's most obedient Servant,

J. RUSSELL.

    [Footnote 43: The note was in reference to the affairs of
    Hesse-Cassel, and to the rumours of a Conference to be held in
    Austria for the settlement of German affairs.]

[Pageheading: THE TRACTARIAN MOVEMENT]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria. It strikes him that the division into twelve territorial
dioceses of eight ecclesiastical vicariats is not a matter to be alarmed at. The persons to
be affected by this change must be already Roman Catholics before it can touch them.

The matter to create rational alarm is, as your Majesty says, the growth of Roman Catholic
doctrines and practices within the bosom of the Church. Dr Arnold said very truly, "I look
upon a Roman Catholic as an enemy in his uniform; I look upon a Tractarian as an enemy disguised
as a spy."

It would be very wrong to do as the Bishop of Oxford proposed, and confer the patronage of
the Crown on any of these Tractarians. But, on the other hand, to treat them with severity
would give the whole party vigour and union.

The Dean of Bristol is of opinion that the Tractarians are falling to pieces by dissension.
It appears clear that Mr Denison and Mr Palmer have broken off from Dr Pusey.

Sir George Grey will ask the Law Officers whether there is anything illegal in Dr Wiseman's
assuming the title of Archbishop of Westminster. An English Cardinal is not a novelty.[45]

    [Footnote 44: Two important events in the history of the
    English Church had just occurred. The Bishop of Exeter had
    refused to institute Mr Gorham to a Crown living in his
    diocese, on the ground that his teaching on baptism was at
    variance with the formularies of the Church. This decision,
    though upheld in the Court of Arches, was reversed (though
    not unanimously) by the Privy Council. High Church feeling was
    much aroused by the judgment.

    In September, Pius IX. (now re-established in the Vatican)
    promulgated a papal brief, restoring the Roman Catholic
    hierarchy in England, and dividing it territorially into
    twelve sees, and in October Cardinal Wiseman, as Archbishop
    of Westminster, issued his Pastoral, claiming that Catholic
    England had been restored to its orbit in the ecclesiastical
    firmament. The Duchess of Norfolk, writing from Arundel, had
    criticised the proselytising action of certain Roman Catholic
    clergy. See the Queen's reply, post, p. 277.]

    [Footnote 45: Lord John wrote on the 4th of November to
    Dr Maltby, Bishop of Durham, denouncing the assumption of
    spiritual superiority over England, in the documents issued
    from Rome. But what alarmed him more (he said) was the
    action of clergymen within the Church leading their flocks
    dangerously near the brink, and recommending for adoption
    the honour paid to saints, the claim of infallibility for the
    Church, the superstitious use of the sign of the cross, the
    muttering of the liturgy so as to disguise the language
    in which it was said, with the recommendation of auricular
    confession and the administration of Penance and absolution.

    Lord John was pictorially satirised in Punch as the boy who
    chalked up "No popery" on the door and ran away.]

[Pageheading: UNREST IN EUROPE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

ARDENNE, 10th November 1850.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I write already to-day that it may not miss to-morrow's messenger. I
came here yesterday by a mild sunshine, and the valley of the Meuse was very pretty. I love
my solitude here, and though the house is small and not what it ought to have been, still I
always liked it. There seems in most countries danger of agitation and convulsions arising.
I don't know how it will end in Germany. In France it is difficult that things should not break
up some way or other. I trust you may be spared religious agitation. These sorts of things
begin with one pretext, and sometimes continue with others. I don't think Europe was ever in
more danger, il y a tant d'anarchie dans les esprits. I don't think that can be cured à l'eau
de rose; the human race is not naturally good, very much the contrary; it requires a strong
hand, and is, in fact, even pleased to be led in that way; the memory of all the sort of Césars
and Napoléons, from whom they chiefly got blows, is much dearer to them than the benefactors
of mankind, whom they crucify when they can have their own way. Give my best love to Albert;
and I also am very anxious to be recalled to the recollection of the children, who were so
very friendly at Ostende. How far we were then to guess what has since happened.... My dearest
Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

Queen Victoria to the Countess of Gainsborough.[46]

Thursday morning [November ...] 1850.

DEAREST FANNY,--This is a case of positive necessity, and as none of the ladies are forthcoming
I fear I must call upon you to attend me to-night. You did so once in state before, and as
it is not a matter of pleasure, but of duty, I am sure you will at once feel that you can have
no scruple.

Whenever the Mistress of the Robes does not attend, I always have three ladies, as they must
take turns in standing behind me. Ever yours affectionately,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 46: Frances, Countess of Gainsborough, daughter of
    the third Earl of Roden, a Lady of the Bedchamber, and known
    till 1841 as Lady Barham.]

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND GERMANY]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 18th November 1850.

The Queen is exceedingly sorry to hear that Lord Westmorland[47] is gone, as she was particularly
anxious to have seen him before his return to Berlin, and to have talked to him on the present
critical events in Germany; but she quite forgot the day of his departure. What is the object
of his seeing the President at Paris? and what are his instructions with regard to Germany?[48]

Having invariably encouraged Constitutional development in other countries,... and having at
the beginning of the great movement in 1847, which led to all the catastrophes of the following
years, sent a Cabinet Minister to Italy to declare to all Italian states that England would
protect them from Austria if she should attempt by threats and violence to debar them from
the attainment of their Constitutional development, consistency would require that we should
now, when that great struggle is at its end and despotism is to be re-imposed by Austrian arms
upon Germany, throw our weight into the scale of Constitutional Prussia and Germany.... The
Queen is afraid, however, that all our Ministers abroad,--at Berlin, Dresden, Munich, Stuttgart,
Hanover, etc. (with the exception of Lord Cowley at Frankfort)--are warm partisans of the despotic
league against Prussia and a German Constitution and for the maintenance of the old Diet under
Austrian and Russian influence. Ought not Lord Palmerston to make his agents understand that
their sentiments are at variance with those of the English Government? and that they are doing
serious mischief if they express them at Courts which have already every inclination to follow
their desperate course?

Lord Palmerston is of course aware that the old Diet once reconstituted and recognised, one
of the main laws of it is that "no organic change can be made without unanimity of voices,"
which was the cause of the nullity of that body from 1820 to 1848, and will now enable Austria,
should Prussia and her confederates recognise the Diet, to condemn Germany to a further life
of stagnation or new revolution.

    [Footnote 47: Minister at Berlin.]

    [Footnote 48: Lord Palmerston may have had this letter of the
    Queen's in mind when he wrote on the 22nd of November to Lord
    Cowley: "Her (i.e. Prussia's) partisans try to make out
    that the contest between her and Austria is a struggle between
    constitutional and arbitrary Government, but it is no such
    thing." Ashley's Life of Lord Palmerston, vol. 1. chap. vi.]

[Pageheading: CONSTITUTIONALISM IN GERMANY]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 18th November 1850.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty. With respect to the maintenance
of Constitutional Government in Germany, Viscount Palmerston entirely subscribes to your Majesty's
opinion, that a regard for consistency, as well as a sense of right and justice, ought to lead
your Majesty's Government to give to the Constitutional principle in Germany the same moral
support which they endeavoured to afford it in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and elsewhere; but though
he is conscious that he may be deceived and may think better of the Austrian Government in
this respect than it deserves, yet he cannot persuade himself that rational and sound Constitutional
Government is at present in danger in Germany, or that the Austrian Government, whatever may
be their inclination and wishes, can think it possible in the present day to re-establish despotic
government in a nation so enlightened, and so attached to free institutions as the German people
now is. The danger for Germany seems to lie rather in the opposite direction, arising from
the rash and weak precipitation with which in 1848 and 1849 those Governments which before
had refused everything resolved in a moment of alarm to grant everything, and, passing from
one extreme to the other, threw universal suffrage among people who had been, some wholly and
others very much, unaccustomed to the working of representative Government. The French have
found universal suffrage incompatible with good order even in a Republic; what must it be for
a Monarchy?

Viscount Palmerston would, moreover, beg to submit that the conflict between Austria and Prussia
can scarcely be said to have turned upon principles of Government so much as upon a struggle
for political ascendency in Germany. At Berlin, at Dresden, and in Baden the Prussian Government
has very properly no doubt employed military force to reestablish order; and in regard to the
affairs of Hesse, the ground taken by Prussia was not so much a constitutional as a military
one, and the objection which she made to the entrance of the troops of the Diet was that those
troops might become hostile, and that they ought not, therefore, to occupy a central position
in the line of military defence of Prussia.

The remark which your Majesty makes as to unanimity being required for certain purposes by
the Diet regulations is no doubt very just, and that circumstance certainly shows that the
free Conference which is about to be held is a better constructed body for planning a new arrangement
of a central organ.[49]

    [Footnote 49: War was staved off by the Conference; but the
    relative predominance of Prussia and Austria in Germany was
    left undecided for some years to come.]

[Pageheading: STATE OF THE CONTINENT]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 22nd November 1850.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Accept my best thanks for your kind letter of the 17th, and the dear little
English one from dear little Charlotte, which is so nicely written, and shows such an amiable
disposition. I send her to-day a little heart for the hair of our blessed Angel, which I hope
she will often wear. Our girls have all got one. I have written to the dear child. You should
have the dear children as much with you as possible; I am sure it would be so good and useful
for you and them. Children ought to have great confidence in their parents, in order for them
to have any influence over them.

Yesterday Vicky was ten years old. It seems a dream. If she lives, in eight years more she
may be married! She is a very clever child, and I must say very much improved.

The state of the Continent is deplorable; the folly of Austria and the giving way of Prussia
are lamentable. Our influence on the Continent is null.... Add to this, we are between two
fires in this country: a furious Protestant feeling and an enraged Catholic feeling in Ireland.
I believe that Austria fans the flame at Rome, and that the whole movement on the Continent
is anti-Constitutional, anti-Protestant, and anti-English; and this is so complicated, and
we have (thanks to Lord Palmerston) contrived to quarrel so happily, separately with each,
that I do not know how we are to stand against it all!

I must now conclude. Trusting soon to hear from you again. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

My longing for dearest Louise seems only to increase as time goes on.

Queen Victoria to the Duchess of Norfolk.

Windsor Castle, 22nd November 1850.

MY DEAR DUCHESS,--It is very remiss in me not to have sooner answered your letter with the
enclosure, but I received it at a moment of great grief, and since then I have been much occupied.

I fully understand your anxiety relative to the proceedings of the Roman Catholic Clergy, but
I trust that there is no real danger to be apprehended from that quarter, the more so as I
believe they see that they have been misled and misinformed as to the feeling of this country
by some of the new converts to their religion. The real danger to be apprehended, and what
I am certain has led to these proceedings on the part of the Pope, lies in our own divisions,
and in the extraordinary conduct of the Puseyites. I trust that the eyes of many may now be
opened. One would, however, much regret to see any acts of intolerance towards the many innocent
people who I believe entirely disapprove the injudicious conduct of their Clergy.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have no dear letter to answer, but write to keep to the dear day, rendered
so peculiarly dear to me by the recollection of our dearly beloved Louise.

We are well, but much troubled with numberless things. Our religious troubles are great, and
I must just say that Cardinal Wiseman himself admits that Austria not only approves the conduct
of the Pope but is urging on the Propaganda. I know this to be so. Our great difficulty must
be, and will be, to steer clear of both parties--the violent Protestants and the Roman Catholics.
We wish in no way to infringe the rights of the Roman Catholics, while we must protect and
uphold our own religion.

We have seen General Radowitz,[50] with whom we have been much interested; his accounts are
very clear and very able, and I must say, very fair and strictly constitutional. You know him,
I suppose? Might I again ask, dearest Uncle, if you would like to have a copy of Ross's picture
of our angel Louise or of Winterhalter's?

Lady Lyttelton, who is returned, is very anxious in her enquiries after you.

I must now conclude, my dearest Uncle. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 50: General Radowitz, who had been Minister for
    Foreign Affairs in Prussia, had just arrived in England on a
    special mission from the King of Prussia.]

[Pageheading: STATE OF GERMANY]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 3rd December 1850.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--Two of your dear letters are before me, of the 29th November and of yesterday.
In the former you give me a promise, which I consider most valuable, and which I shall remind
you of if you get desponding, viz. "I will to please you labour on, and do all the good I can."
It is so pleasing to feel that one does good and does one's duty. It sweetens so many bitter
trials.

The state of Germany is indeed a very anxious one. It is a mistake to think the supremacy of
Prussia is what is wished for. General Radowitz himself says that what is necessary for Germany
[is] that she should take the lead, and should redeem the pledges given in '48. Unless this
be done in a moderate and determined way, a fearful reaction will take place, which will overturn
Thrones; to use Radowitz's own words: "und nicht vor dem Thron stehen bleiben." Prussia is
the only large and powerful really German Power there is, and therefore she must take the lead;
but her constant vacillation--one day doing one thing and another day another--has caused her
to be entirely distrusted. You are quite right in saying things should be done d'un commun
accord, and I think that the other great Powers ought to be consulted. Unfortunately, Lord
Palmerston has contrived to make us so hated by all parties abroad, that we have lost our position
and our influence, which, considering the flourishing and satisfactory state of this country
during all the European convulsions, ought to have been immense. This it is which pains and
grieves me so deeply, and which I have so plainly been speaking to Lord John Russell about.
What a noble position we might have had, and how wantonly has it been thrown away!

Good Stockmar is well, and always of the greatest comfort and use to us. His judgment is so
sound, so unbiassed, and so dispassionate. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND ROME]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 8th December 1850.

The Queen received Lord John Russell's letter and the draft yesterday. He must be a better
judge of what the effect of Mr Sheil's[51] presence in Rome may be than she can; but for her
own part, she thinks it entirely against her notions of what is becoming to ask the Pope for
a favour (for it is tantamount to that) at a moment when his name is being vilified and abused
in every possible manner in this country. It strikes the Queen as an undignified course for
this Government to pursue.

The Queen is glad to hear of what passed between the Archbishop and Lord John.[52] She trusts
that something may be done, as the desire for it seems to be so great. On the other hand, the
Queen deeply regrets the great abuse of the Roman Catholic religion which takes place at all
these meetings, etc. She thinks it unchristian and unwise, and trusts that it will soon cease....

    [Footnote 51: Minister at the Court of Tuscany.]

    [Footnote 52: The Government were preparing for the
    introduction of their Ecclesiastical Titles Bill.]

[Pageheading: LADY PEEL]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 10th December 1850.

MY BELOVED UNCLE,--My letter must, I fear, be a somewhat hurried and short one, for my morning
has been taken up in receiving in state Addresses from the City and Universities about this
unfortunate "Papal Aggression" business, which is still keeping people in a feverish state
of wild excitement.[53] One good effect it has had, viz. that of directing people's serious
attention to the very alarming tendency of the Tractarians, which was doing immense harm....

Many, many thanks for your two dear and kind letters of the 6th and of yesterday. All you say
about Louise, and about the disappearance for ever of all that she loved and was proud of,
is so true, so dreadful. One fancies (foolishly and wrongly, but still one does) that the lost
one has been hardly used in no longer enjoying these earthly blessings, and one's grief seems
to break out afresh in bitter agony upon small and comparatively trifling occasions. Poor Lady
Peel (whom I saw for the first time yesterday at Buckingham Palace, whither I had gone for
an hour) expressed this strongly. Hers is indeed a broken heart; she is so truly crushed by
the agony of her grief; it was very touching to see and to hear her. Poor thing! she never
can be happy again!

What you say about me is far too kind. I am very often sadly dissatisfied with myself and with
the little self-control I have.

Your long letter interested us much. I fear the German affairs are very bad.... That everlasting
"backwards and forwards," as you say, of my poor friend the King of Prussia is calamitous;
it causes all parties to distrust him, and gives real strength only to the Republicans. Since
'48 that has been his conduct, and the misfortune for Germany. A steady course, whatever it
may be, is always the best.

What you say about poor Hélène[54] and France is true and sad. I really wish you would caution
Hélène as to her language; she is much attached to you. I pity her very much; her position
is very trying, and her religion renders it more difficult even.

I must now end my letter. I grieve to hear of your going alone to Ardenne; it is BAD for you
to be alone, and your poor children also ought not to be alone. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 53: These Addresses were presented at Windsor,
    Prince Albert and the Duke of Wellington representing the
    Universities of Cambridge and Oxford.]

    [Footnote 54: The Duchess of Orleans.]

[Pageheading: THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

DOWNING STREET, 11th December 1850.

The inclination of the majority was not to prosecute, but to bring a Bill into Parliament to
make the assumption of any titles of archbishop, etc., of any place in the United Kingdom illegal,
and to make any gift of property conveyed under such title null and void.

[Pageheading: RITUALISM]

Queen Victoria to the Duchess of Gloucester.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 12th December 1850.

MY DEAR AUNT,--Many thanks for your kind letter; you are quite right not to distress the Duchess
of Cambridge by mentioning to her what I wrote to you about the Bishop of London.[55] I am
glad that you are pleased with my answers to the Addresses; I thought them very proper.[56]

I would never have consented to say anything which breathed a spirit of intolerance. Sincerely
Protestant as I always have been and always shall be, and indignant as I am at those who call
themselves Protestants, while they in fact are quite the contrary, I much regret the unchristian
and intolerant spirit exhibited by many people at the public meetings. I cannot bear to hear
the violent abuse of the Catholic religion, which is so painful and cruel towards the many
good and innocent Roman Catholics. However, we must hope and trust this excitement will soon
cease, and that the wholesome effect of it on our own Church will be the lasting result of
it. She sanctions the introduction into Parliament of a Bill framed on the principles agreed
upon at yesterday's Cabinet, presuming that it will extend to the whole United Kingdom. What
is to be done, however, with respect to the Colonies where the Roman Catholic bishoprics are
recognised by the Government under territorial titles? and what is to be done with Dr Cullen,
who has assumed the title of Archbishop of Armagh, Primate of all Ireland, which is punishable
under the Emancipation Act? If this is left unnoticed, the Government will be left with the
"lame" argument in Parliament of which we conversed here. Could the Government not be helped
out of this difficulty by the Primate himself prosecuting the obtruder? The Queen hopes that
the meeting of the archdeacons with Dr Lushington may do some good; she cannot say that she
is pleased with the Archbishop's answer to the laity published in to-day's Times, which leaves
them without a remedy if the clergymen persist in Puseyite Rituals! The Queen will return Lord
Minto's letter with the next messenger.

The Queen now returns Lord Seymour's letter respecting the New Forest, and sanctions the proposed
arrangement. Considering, however, that she gives up the deer, and all patronage and authority
over the Forest, she wishes the shooting, as the only remaining Royalty, not to be withdrawn
from her authority also. It will be quite right to give Deputations[57] to shoot over the various
divisions and walks of the Forest to gentlemen of the neighbourhood or others; but in order
that this may establish no right on their part, and may leave the Sovereign a voice in the
matter, she wishes that a list be prepared every year of the persons recommended by the Office
of Woods to receive Deputations and submitted for her approval.

    [Footnote 57: A deputation, i.e., a deputed right to take
    game.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER XX

The Ministry were in difficulties at the very beginning of the session (1851), being nearly
defeated on a motion made in the interest of the agricultural party; and though the Ecclesiastical
Titles Bill was allowed to be brought in, they were beaten in a thin House chiefly by their
own friends, on the question of the County Franchise. A crisis ensued, and a coalition of Whigs
and Peelites was attempted, but proved impracticable. Lord Stanley having then failed to form
a Protectionist Ministry, the Whigs, much weakened, had to resume office.

The Exhibition, which was opened in Hyde Park on the 1st of May, was a complete success, a
brilliant triumph indeed, for the Prince, over six million people visiting it; it remained
open till the Autumn, and the building, some time after its removal, was re-erected at Sydenham,
at the Crystal Palace.

The Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, much modified, was proceeded with, and, though opposed by the
ablest Peelites and Radicals, became law, though its effect, while in operation, was virtually
nil. It was in after-years repealed.

Kossuth, the champion of Hungarian independence, visited England in October, and Lord Palmerston
had to be peremptorily restrained from receiving him publicly at the Foreign Office. A little
later, Kossuth's ultra-liberal sympathisers in London addressed the Foreign Secretary in language
violently denunciatory of the Emperors of Austria and Russia, for which Lord Palmerston failed
to rebuke them. The cup was filled to the brim by his recognition of the President's coup d'état
in France. Louis Napoleon, after arresting M. Thiers and many others, proclaimed the dissolution
of the Council of State and the National Assembly, decreed a state of siege, and re-established
universal suffrage, with a Chief Magistrate elected for ten years, and a Ministry depending
on the executive alone. Palmerston thereupon, though professing an intention of non-interference,
conveyed to the French Ambassador in London his full approbation of the proceeding, and his
conviction that the President could not have acted otherwise. Even after this indiscreet action,
the Premier found some difficulty in bringing him to book; but before the end of the year he
was dismissed from office, with the offer, which he declined, of the Irish Lord-Lieutenancy
and a British Peerage. Greatly to the Queen's satisfaction, Lord Granville became Foreign Secretary.

At the Cape, Sir Harry Smith was engaged in operations against the Kaffirs, which were not
brought to a successful termination till the following year, when General Cathcart had superseded
him.

CHAPTER XX

1851

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 25th January 1851.

The Queen approves of the elevation of Mr. Pemberton Leigh[1] to the Peerage, which she considers
a very useful measure, and not likely to lead to any permanent increase of the Peerage, as
he is not likely to marry at his present age, and considering that he has only a life interest
in his large property.

With regard to the creation of Dr Lushington[2] as a Peer, without remainder, the Queen has
again thoroughly considered the question, and is of opinion that the establishment of the principle
of creation for life--in cases where public advantage may be derived from the grant of a Peerage,
but where there may be no fortune to support the dignity in the family--is most desirable.
The mode in which the public will take the introduction of it will however chiefly depend upon
the merits of the first case brought forward. Dr Lushington appears to the Queen so unobjectionable
in this respect that she cannot but approve of the experiment being tried with him.

It would be well, however, that it should be done quietly; that it should not be talked about
beforehand or get into the papers, which so frequently happens on occasions of this kind, and
generally does harm.

    [Footnote 1: Member of Parliament for Rye 1881-1832, and Ripon
    1835-1843, afterwards a member of the Judicial Committee of
    the Privy Council: he became a Peer (Lord Kingsdown) in 1858,
    having declined a peerage on the present and other occasions.]

    [Footnote 2: Dr Lushington was judge of the Admiralty Court:
    he had been counsel for, and an executor of, Queen Caroline.
    He declined the offer now suggested, and the subsequent
    debates on the Wensleydale Peerage show that the proposed
    grant would have been ineffectual for its purpose.]

[Pageheading: DIPLOMATIC ARRANGEMENTS]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 31st January 1851.

The Queen has received Lord Palmerston's letter of the 29th, in which he proposes a change
in those diplomatic arrangements which she had already sanctioned on his recommendation, and
must remark that the reasons which Lord Palmerston adduces in support of his present proposition
are in direct contradiction to those by which he supported his former recommendation.[3]

The principle which the Queen would wish to see acted upon in her diplomatic appointments in
general, is, that the good of the service should precede every other consideration, and that
the selection of an agent should depend more on his personal qualifications for the particular
post for which he is to be selected than on the mere pleasure and convenience of the person
to be employed, or of the Minister recommending him.

According to Lord Palmerston's first proposal, Sir H. Seymour was to have gone to St Petersburg,
Lord Bloomfield to Berlin, and Sir Richard Pakenham to Lisbon; now Lord Palmerston wishes to
send Lord Cowley to St Petersburg.

The Queen has the highest opinion of Lord Cowley's abilities, and agrees with Lord Palmerston
in thinking that Russia will, for some time at least, exercise a predominating influence over
all European affairs. She would accordingly not object to see that Agent accredited there in
whom she herself places the greatest confidence. But according to the same principle, she must
insist that the posts of Berlin and Frankfort, which in her opinion are of nearly equal importance,
should be filled by men capable of dealing with the complicated and dangerous political questions
now in agitation there, and the just appreciation and judicious treatment of which are of the
highest importance to the peace of Europe, and therefore to the welfare of England.

Before the Queen therefore decides upon Lord Palmerston's new proposals, she wishes to know
whom he could recommend for the post of Frankfort in the event of Lord Cowley leaving it, and
thinks it but right to premise that in giving her sanction to the proposals Lord Palmerston
may have to submit, she will be guided entirely by the principle set forth above.

    [Footnote 3: Lord Palmerston had altered his mind as to
    certain proposed diplomatic changes, and suggested the
    appointment of Sir Hamilton Seymour to Berlin, Lord Bloomfield
    to Lisbon, Lord Cowley to Petersburg, Mr Jerningham, Sir Henry
    Ellis, or Sir Richard Pakenham to Frankfort.]

[Pageheading: DIPLOMATIC ARRANGEMENTS]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

CHESHAM PLACE, 12th January 1851.

He proposed nothing specific, but said nothing offensive.

The doubts about the division increase. Mr Hayter reckoned yesterday on a majority of three!
Sir James Graham is of opinion Lord Stanley will not undertake anything desperate. He will
speak in favour of Government to-morrow, when the division will probably take place.

    [Footnote 4: On agricultural distress; the Motion was lost by
    fourteen only in a large House.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 15th February 1851.

The Queen has received Lord Palmerston's letter of yesterday, and has to state in answer her
decision in favour of the original plan of appointments, viz. of Sir H. Seymour to Petersburg,
Lord Bloomfield to Berlin, and Sir R. Pakenham to Lisbon. The Queen quite agrees with Lord
Palmerston in the opinion that the post at Petersburg is more important than that of Frankfort,
and had Lord Palmerston been able to propose a good successor to Lord Cowley she would have
approved his going to Petersburg; Sir R. Pakenham, however, would not take Frankfort if offered
to him, as it appears, and the two other persons proposed would not do for it, in the Queen's
opinion. It must not be forgotten that at a place for action like Petersburg, the Minister
will chiefly have to look to his instructions from home, while at a place of observation, as
Lord Palmerston justly calls Frankfort, everything depends upon the acuteness and impartiality
of the observer, and upon the confidence with which he may be able to inspire those from whom
alone accurate information can be obtained. Lord Cowley possesses eminently these qualities,
and Sir H. Seymour has at all times shown himself equal to acting under most difficult circumstances.
The desire of the Emperor to see Lord Cowley at Petersburg may possibly resolve itself in the
desire of Baron Brunnow to see him removed from Germany.... The Queen had always understood
that Sir H. Seymour would be very acceptable to the Emperor, and that Count Nesselrode called
him a diplomatist "de la bonne vieille roche."

[Pageheading: SIR JAMES GRAHAM]

Memorandum by Queen Victoria.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE. 17th February 1851.

Lord John Russell came at half-past three. He had had a long conversation with Sir James Graham,
had stated to him that from the tone of his speech (which Lord John explained to us yesterday
was of so very friendly a character and pointed directly to supporting the Government)--its
friendliness, and the manner in which he advocated the union of those who opposed a return
to Protection, that he proposed to him to join the Government; that Sir G. Grey had offered
to resign his office in order that Sir J. Graham might have it. Before I go farther I ought
to say that Lord John yesterday explained the importance of obtaining support like Sir J. Graham's
in the Cabinet, and that he thought of proposing the Board of Control to him, which Sir J.
Hobhouse was ready to give up--receiving a Peerage, and retaining a seat in the Cabinet or
the Admiralty, which Sir F. Baring was equally ready to give up.

Well, Sir J. Graham said that before he answered he wished to show Lord John a correspondence
which had passed between him and Lord Londonderry. In the course of conversation in the country,
Sir James had said to Lord Londonderry that parties never could go on as they were, and that
they must ultimately lapse into two; this, Lord Londonderry reported to Mr Disraeli, who told
it to Lord Stanley; and Mr Disraeli wrote to Lord Londonderry, stating that if certain advantages
and reliefs were given to the landed interests, he should not cling to Protection; in short,
much what he said in his speech--and that he was quite prepared to give up the lead in the
House of Commons to Sir J. Graham. Sir James answered that he never meant anything by what
he had said, and that he had no wish whatever to join Lord Stanley; that if he had, he was
so intimate with Lord Stanley that he would have communicated direct with him.

Sir James said that as soon as he heard from Lord John, he thought what he wished to see him
for, and that he had been thinking over it, and had been talking to Lord Hardinge and Mr Cardwell.
That he did wish to support the Government, but that he thought he could be of more use if
he did not join the Government, and was able to give them an independent support; that he had
not attempted to lead Sir Robert Peel's followers; that many who had followed Sir Robert would
not follow him; that he thought the Government in great danger; that the Protectionists, Radicals,
and Irish Members would try to take an opportunity to overset them (the Government); that should
the Government be turned out, he would find no difficulty in joining them; or should they go
on, that by-and-by it might be easier to do so; but that at this moment he should be injuring
himself without doing the Government any real service; besides which, there were so many measures
decided on which he was ignorant of, and should have to support. Lord John told him that were
he in the Cabinet, he would have the means of stating and enforcing his opinions, and that
at whatever time he joined them, there would always be the same difficulty about measures which
had already been decided on. He (Sir James) is not quite satisfied with the Papal Aggression
Bill, which he thinks will exasperate the Irish; he also adverted to the report of our having
protested against Austria bringing her Italian Provinces, etc., into the German Confederation.
Lord John told him that this had not been done, but that we meant to ask for explanations.

In short, Lord John said it was evident that Sir James thought the Government in great danger,
and "did not wish to embark in a boat which was going to sink." Still, he was friendly, and
repeated that it would be very easy when in opposition to unite, and then to come in together.

This is another circumstance which makes it probable the Ministry cannot endure long. The Tories
purposely stayed away.

    [Footnote 5: For equalising the County and the Borough
    franchise.]

[Pageheading: MINISTERIAL CRISIS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 21st February 1851.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have only time just to write a few hasty lines to you from Stockmar's
room, where I came up to speak to Albert and him, to tell you that we have got a Ministerial
crisis; the Ministers were in a great minority last night, and though it was not a question
vital to the Government, Lord John feels the support he has received so meagre, and the opposition
of so many parties so great, that he must resign! This is very bad, because there is no chance
of any other good Government, poor Peel being no longer alive, and not one man of talent except
Lord Stanley in the Party;... but Lord John is right not to go on when he is so ill supported,
and it will raise him as a political man, and will strengthen his position for the future.

Whether Lord Stanley (to whom I must send to-morrow after the Government have resigned) will
be able to form a Government or not, I cannot tell. Altogether, it is very vexatious, and will
give us trouble. It is the more provoking, as this country is so very prosperous.

On Tuesday I hope to be able to say more....

With Albert's love, ever your truly devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: LORD LANSDOWNE CONSULTED]

[Pageheading: LORD STANLEY SUMMONED]

[Pageheading: FISCAL POLICY OUTLINED]

[Pageheading: PROTECTION]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 22nd February 1851.

Lord John Russell having been for a few minutes with the Queen, in order to prepare her for
the possibility of the Government's resignation (yesterday, at two o'clock), went to Downing
Street to meet the Cabinet, and promised to return at four in order to communicate the decision
the Cabinet might have arrived at. On his return he explained that after the vote at the beginning
of the Session on the Orders of the Day, which went directly against the Government, after
the small majority (only fourteen) which they had on the motion of Mr Disraeli on the landed
interest, and now the defeat on the Franchise, it was clear that the Government did not possess
the confidence of the House of Commons. He complained of the Protectionists staying away in
a body on Mr King's motion, and he (Lord John) himself being left without a supporter even
amongst his colleagues in the debate, but most of all of the conduct of the Radicals; for when
Mr King, hearing Lord John's promise to bring in a measure next Session, wanted to withdraw
his Motion, as he ought to have done on such a declaration by the head of the Government, Mr
Hume insisted upon his going on, "else Lord John would withdraw his promise again in a fortnight";
and when the result of the vote was made known the shouting and triumph of the hundred was immense.

Lord John had declared to the Cabinet that he could not go on, that the Income Tax would have
to be voted the next day, and a defeat was probable; it were much better therefore not to hesitate,
and to resign at once. The Cabinet agreed, although some Members thought with Lord Palmerston
that the occasion was hardly sufficient. Lord John begged to be allowed till to-day, in order
to see Lord Lansdowne, whom he had sent for from the country, and to be able to tender then
his resignation; he would go down to the House to adjourn it, promising explanations on Monday.

We agreed with Lord John that he owed to his station personally, and as the Queen's Minister,
not to put up with ignominious treatment, praised his speech on the Suffrage, which is admirable,
and regretted that his colleagues had prevented him from bringing in a measure this year. We
talked of the difficulty of forming any Government, but agreed that Lord Stanley and the Protection
Party ought to be appealed to; they longed for office, and would not rest quiet till they had
had it if for ever so short a time only.

We further went over the ground of a possible demand for a Dissolution, which might bring on
a general commotion in the country. Lord John agreed in this, but thought the responsibility
to be very great for the Crown to refuse an appeal to the country to the new Government; he
thought a decision on that point ought to depend on the peculiar circumstances of the case.

Lord Lansdowne, who had come from Bowood by the express train, arrived at twelve o'clock, and
came at once to meet Lord John Russell here at the Palace.

In the audience which the Queen gave him he expressed his entire concurrence with the decision
the Cabinet had come to, as the resignation could at any rate only have been delayed. It was
clear that the Cabinet had lost the confidence of the House of Commons; what had happened the
other night was only the last drop which made the cup flow over, and that it was much more
dignified not to let the Government die a lingering and ignominious death; he [thought] that
Lord Stanley would have great difficulties, but would be able to form a Government; at least
the Protectionist Party gave out that they had a Cabinet prepared.

We then saw Lord John Russell, who formally tendered his resignation, and was very much moved
on taking leave; he said that, considering Lord Stanley's principles, it would not be possible
for him to hold out any hope of support to that Government, except on the estimates for which
he felt responsible, but he would at all times be ready vigorously to defend the Crown, which
was in need of every support in these days.

At three o'clock came Lord Stanley, whom the Queen had summoned.

The Queen informed him of the resignation of the Government, in consequence of the late vote,
which had been the result of the Protectionists staying away, of the small majority which the
Government had had upon Mr Disraeli's Motion, and of the many symptoms of want of confidence
exhibited towards the Government in the House of Commons. The Queen had accepted their resignation,
and had sent for him as the head of that Party, which was now the most numerous in Opposition,
in order to ask him whether he could undertake to form a Government.

Lord Stanley expressed great surprise. The impression had been that the Government had not
been in earnest in their opposition to Mr L. King's Motion; in the minority had voted only
twenty-seven members of the Government side, the rest had been of his Party. He asked if the
whole Cabinet had resigned, or whether there had been dissension in the Cabinet upon it? The
Queen replied that the resignation had been unanimously agreed upon in the Cabinet, and that
Lord Lansdowne, who had only come up from Bowood this morning, had given his entire approval
to it. Lord Stanley then asked whether anybody else had been consulted or applied to, to which
the Queen replied that she had written to him a few minutes after Lord John's resignation,
and had communicated with no one else. Lord Stanley then said that he hoped the Queen's acceptance
had only been a conditional one; that he felt very much honoured by the Queen's confidence;
that he hoped he might be able to tender advice which might contribute to the Queen's comfort,
and might relieve the present embarrassment.

In order to be able to do so he must enter most freely and openly into his own position and
that of his Party. It was quite true that they formed the most numerous in Parliament after
the supporters of what he hoped he might still call the present Government, but that there
were no men contained in it who combined great ability with experience in public business.
There was one certainly of great ability and talent--Mr Disraeli--but who had never held office
before, and perhaps Mr Herries, who possessed great experience, but who did not command great
authority in the House of Commons; that he should have great difficulties in presenting to
the Queen a Government fit to be accepted, unless he could join with some of the late Sir R.
Peel's followers; that he considered, for instance, the appointment of a good person for Foreign
Affairs indispensable, and there was scarcely any one fit for it except Lord Palmerston and
Lord Aberdeen. Lord Aberdeen had told him that he had no peculiar views upon Free Trade, and
that he did not pretend to understand the question, but that he had felt it his duty to stand
by Sir R. Peel; this might now be different, but it ought first to be ascertained whether a
combination of those who agreed in principle, and had only been kept asunder hitherto by personal
considerations, could not be formed; that Sir James Graham had in his last speech declared
it as his opinion that the ranks of those who agreed ought to be closed; when such a combination
had taken place, those of Sir R. Peel's followers who could not agree to it might not be unwilling
to join him (Lord Stanley). As to his principles, he would frankly state that he thought that
the landed interest was much depressed by the low state of prices; that an import duty on corn
would be absolutely necessary, which, however, would be low, and only a revenue duty; such
a duty, he thought, the country would be prepared for; and if they were allowed to state their
honest opinion, he felt sure the greatest part of the present Government would be heartily
glad of. He would require Duties upon sugar for revenue, but he could not conceal that if the
revenue after a diminution in the direct taxation, which he would propose, should considerably
fall off, he might be driven to raise the Import duties on other articles. He thought the present
House of Commons could hardly be expected to reverse its decision upon the financial and commercial
policy of the country, and that accordingly a Dissolution of Parliament would become necessary.
Such a Dissolution, however, could not be undertaken at this moment for the sake of public
business. The Mutiny Bill had not been voted nor the Supplies, and it would require more than
eight weeks before the new Parliament could be assembled, and consequently the Crown would
be left without Army or money. A Dissolution could accordingly not take place before Easter.
He felt, however, that if he were to take office now, he would between this and Easter be exposed
to such harassing attacks that he should not be able to withstand them; moreover, it would
subject the members of his Government to two elections in two months. He hoped therefore that
the Queen would try to obtain a Government by a coalition of the Whigs and Peelites, but that
this failing, if the Queen should send again for him, and it was clear no other Government
could be formed, he would feel it his duty as a loyal subject to risk everything, except his
principles and his honour, to carry on the Government; and he hoped that in such a case the
Queen would look leniently on the composition of the Cabinet which he could offer, and that
the country would, from the consideration of the circumstances, give it a fair trial. He begged,
however, that he might not be called upon to take office except as a dernier ressort, a necessity.

I interrupted him when he spoke of his financial measures, and begged him further to explain,
when it appeared that a duty of about six shillings on corn was the least he could impose to
bring up the price to forty-five shillings, which Sir R. Peel had stated to the House of Commons
was in his opinion the lowest price wheat would fall to after the abolition of the Corn Laws.

We expressed our doubts as to the country agreeing to such a measure, and our apprehension
of the violent spirit which would be roused in the working classes by a Dissolution for that
purpose, which Lord Stanley, however, did not seem to apprehend; on the contrary, he thought
the distress of the farmers would lead to the destruction of the landed interest, which was
the only support to the Throne.

I told him that the Queen and certainly myself had been under a delusion, and that I was sure
the country was equally so, as to his intention to return to Protection. Sometimes it was stated
that Protection would be adhered to, sometimes that it was given up, and that it was compensation
to the landed interest which the Protectionists looked to. His last speeches and the Motion
of Mr Disraeli led to that belief, but that it was of the highest importance that the country
should know exactly what was intended; the Queen would then have an opportunity of judging
how the nation looked upon the proposal. I hoped therefore that the declaration of his opinions
which Lord Stanley had now laid before the Queen would be clearly enunciated by him in Parliament
when the Ministerial explanations should take place, which would naturally follow this crisis.

Lord Stanley merely answered that he hoped that no explanations would take place before a Government
was formed. He said he should wish the word "Protection" to be merged, to which I rejoined
that though he might wish this, I doubted whether the country would let him.

Before taking leave, he repeated over and over again his advice that the Coalition Ministry
should be tried.

ALBERT.

Queen Victoria to Lord Stanley.

22nd February 1851.

In order to be able to be perfectly accurate in stating Lord Stanley's opinions, which the
Queen feels some delicacy in doing, she would be very thankful if he would write down for her
what he just stated to her--as his advice in the present difficulty. Of course she would not
let such a paper go out of her hands.

[Pageheading: SIR JAMES GRAHAM]

[Pageheading: FOREIGN POLICY]

[Pageheading: THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON]

Memorandum by the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 23rd February 1851.

Sir James Graham, who had been out of Town, came at six o'clock, having received my letter
on his return. Lord John Russell had been here before that time.

After having stated to him (Lord John) what had passed with Lord Stanley, we told him that
Sir James Graham was here; Lord John seemed much surprised at Lord Stanley's refusal to form
an Administration, declared himself ready to do what he could towards the formation of a new
Government on an extended basis, but thought that Sir James Graham and Lord Aberdeen should
have the first offer.

I went accordingly over to my room, where Sir James was waiting. He was entirely taken by surprise
by the announcement of the resignation of the Government, and begged to be able to state to
me how he was situated before he saw the Queen and Lord John.

I then communicated to him what had passed with Lord Stanley, upon which we had a conversation
of more than an hour, of which the chief features were:

1. Apprehension on the part of Sir James Graham lest the attempt on the part of Lord Stanley
to re-impose Protective duties should produce universal commotion in the country, which would
be increased by the Dissolution, without which Lord Stanley would not be able to proceed.

2. His disbelief that Lord Aberdeen would be able to join in any Government abandoning Sir
R. Peel's principles, as he had been consulted before and after Sir James's late speech in
which he expressed his entire concurrence.

3. His own utter weakness, calling himself the weakest man in England, who had lost his only
friend in Sir R. Peel, and had for the last fifteen years not exercised an independent judgment,
but rested entirely on his friend.

4. His disagreement with some of his late colleagues--the Duke of Newcastle, Mr Gladstone,
and Mr Sidney Herbert--in religious opinions.

5. His disagreement with Lord John's Government upon some most important points.

He could not take office with Lord Palmerston as Foreign Secretary, whose policy and mode of
conducting business he disapproved, who was now protesting against the admission of Austria
into the German Confederation; he disapproved the Papal Aggression Bill, finding it militating
against the line which he had taken as Secretary of State with regard to the Roman Catholic
Bishops in Ireland, and particularly the Bequest Act, and considering that after Lord John's
letter the Bill would fall short of the high expectations formed in the minds of the English
public.

He disapproved of the abolition of the Irish Lord-Lieutenancy, and the making a fourth Secretary
of State had been considered by Sir Robert Peel and himself as introducing into England all
the Irish malpractices, while Ireland was still kept wholly separate from England.

Lord John had raised a new difficulty by his declaration upon Reform. He had been thunderstruck
when he read the announcement on the part of the chief author of the Reform Bill, who had stood
with him (Sir J. Graham) hitherto upon finality, condemning his own work, and promising at
a year's distance important alterations, in which interval great agitation would be got up,
great expectations raised, and the measure when brought forward would cause disappointment.
Sir Robert Peel had always been of opinion that it was most dangerous to touch these questions,
but if opened with the consent of the Crown, a measure should at once be brought forward and
passed.

After my having replied to these different objections, that the Queen felt herself the importance
of Lord Palmerston's removal, and would make it herself a condition with Lord John that he
should not be again Foreign Secretary; that the protest to Austria had not gone, and that upon
studying the question Sir James would find that the entrance of the whole Austrian Monarchy,
while giving France a pretext for war and infringing the Treaties of 1815, would not tend to
the strength and unity of Germany, which held to be the true English interest, but quite the
reverse; that I did not think the Papal Aggression Bill touched the Bequest Act or militated
against toleration; that the Lieutenancy would perhaps be given up, and a measure on the Franchise
be considered by the new Government and brought forward at once. I thought it would be better
to discuss the matters with Lord John Russell in the Queen's presence, who accordingly joined us.

The discussion which now arose went pretty much over the same ground, Lord John agreeing that
Lord Palmerston ought to form no difficulty, that the Papal Aggression Bill would be further
modified, that the Lieutenancy Bill might be given up, that he agreed to Sir James's objection
to the declaration about reform, but that he had intended to bring forward a measure, if he
had been able to get his colleagues to agree to it, that he would be ready to propose a measure
at once. This Sir J. Graham thought important as a means of gaining at a General Election,
which he foresaw could not be long delayed, whoever formed a Government.

In order to obtain some result from this long debate I summed up what might be considered as
agreed upon, viz. That there was tabula rasa, and for the new Coalition a free choice of men
and measures, to which they assented, Lord John merely stating that he could not take office
without part of his friends, and could not sacrifice his personal declarations. Dinnertime
having approached, and Lord Aberdeen having written that he would be with us after nine o'clock,
we adjourned the further discussion till then, when they would return.

Whilst the Queen dressed I had an interview with the Duke of Wellington, who had come to dine
here, in which I informed him of the nature of our crisis. He expressed his regret and his
dread of a Protectionist Government with a Dissolution, which might lead to civil commotion.
He could not forgive, he said, the high Tory Party for their having stayed away the other night
on Mr Locke King's Motion, and thus abandoned their own principles; he had no feeling for Lord
John Russell's Cabinet, measures, or principles, but he felt that the Crown and the country
were only safe in these days by having the Liberals in office, else they would be driven to
join the Radical agitation against the institutions of the country.

After dinner we resumed our adjourned debate in my room, at a quarter to ten, with Lord Aberdeen,
and were soon joined by Lord John and Sir James Graham. We went over the same ground with him.
Lord Stanley's letter was read and discussed. Lord Aberdeen declared his inability to join
in a Protectionist Ministry; he did not pretend to understand the question of Free Trade, but
it was a point of honour with him not to abandon it, and now, since Sir R. Peel's death, a
matter of piety. He thought the danger of a Dissolution on a question of food by the Crown,
for the purpose of imposing a tax upon bread, of the utmost danger for the safety of the country.
He disapproved the Papal Bill, the abolition of the Lieutenancy, he had no difficulty upon
the Franchise, for though he was called a despot, he felt a good deal of the Radical in him
sometimes.

Lord John put it to Lord Aberdeen, whether he would not undertake to form a Government, to
which Lord Aberdeen gave no distinct reply.

As Sir James Graham raised nothing but difficulties, though professing the greatest readiness
to be of use, and as it was getting on towards midnight, we broke up, with the Queen's injunction
that one of the three gentlemen must form a Government, to which Lord Aberdeen laughingly replied:
"I see your Majesty has come into[6] the Président de la République." Lord John was to see
Lord Lansdowne to-day at three o'clock, and would report progress to the Queen at five o'clock.
On one point we were agreed, viz. that the Government to be formed must not be for the moment,
but with a view to strength and stability.

ALBERT.

    [Footnote 6: Sic.]

[Pageheading: COMPLICATIONS]

Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell.

23d February 1851.

The Queen has seen Lord Aberdeen and Sir J. Graham, but is sorry to say that her doing so was
premature, as they had no opportunity of seeing each other after they left Lord John Russell,
and therefore had not considered the Memorandum[7] which Lord John had handed to them. Lord
Aberdeen has in the interval seen Lord Stanley, and declared to him that he must undeceive
him as to the possibility of his ever joining a Protection Government. What further resulted
from the conversation the Queen would prefer to state to Lord John verbally to-morrow. Perhaps
Lord John would come in the forenoon to-morrow, or before he goes to the House; he will be
so good as to let her know.

    [Footnote 7: With a view of uniting with the Peelites, Lord
    John drew up a Memorandum, printed in Walpole's Lord John
    Russell, vol. ii. chap, xxii., with the following points:

    A Cabinet of not more than eleven Members.

    The present commercial policy to be maintained.

    The financial measures of the year to be open to revision.

