The student of pure science was surprised beyond measure. What had happened? What new blunder
had he committed? With all his deep study of things material he was ignorant of things emotional
and sentimental. This exhibition of anger and grief in his pretty cousin utterly disconcerted
him. He did not know what to do, nor what to think, and he stood in the glare of his lantern
for a moment or two in deep thought.

Then he closed the lantern and turning round, examined the shadowy picture thrown upon the
wall. It represented a young man and a young woman seated upon the wooden rail of the bridge
in the open air, and in most loving embrace. His arm was about her waist, and he was looking
in her face. His straw hat hid his features, but the face of the young woman was turned toward
the camera that had so perfectly mirrored them both. She seemed to be a young and pretty girl
in the more lowly walks of life, and her lover seemed to be a gentleman. What a pity he hadn't
looked up! Who could he be? And she? Alma's remark plainly showed that she at least knew the
girl, and for some reason was hotly indignant with her.

Thinking he had made trouble enough already, Elmer took one more good look at the picture,
and then prepared to destroy it. Something about the young man's hat struck him as familiar.
It was a panama hat, and had two ribbons wound round it in a fanciful manner that was not exactly
conventional.

He silently opened a shutter, and the picture faded away. He drew up the curtains and looked
out on the bridge. The young couple had disappeared. Poor innocents! They little knew how their
pictures had been taken in spite of themselves, and they little knew the tragic and terrible
consequences that were to flow from the stolen photograph so strangely made. Elmer took the
little slide from the lantern, and was on the point of shivering it to fragments on the hearthstone,
when he paused in deep thought. Was it wise to destroy it? Had he not better preserve it? Perhaps
he could some day solve the mystery that hung about it, and find out the cause of Alma's grief
and anger. Perhaps he might help her; and there came a softening about his heart that seemed
both new and wonderfully unscientific.

Shortly after this the dinner bell rang, and he went down to the dining-room. Alma sent word
that she had a severe headache and could not appear. Mr. Belford was already there, and he
looked at Mr. Franklin with an expression that made the young man uncomfortable in spite of
himself. Mr. Denny was unusually thoughtful and silent, and conversation between the younger
men was not particularly brilliant or entertaining. At last the dreary meal was finished. Mr.
Belford rose first and went out into the hall. Mr. Franklin followed him, and saw something
that quite took his breath away.

There lay the hat of the photograph, double ribbons and all. Mr. Belford quietly took it up
and put it on, and it fitted him perfectly. Elmer stopped abruptly and looked at the man with
the utmost interest. The confidential, the chimney builder paid no attention, and quickly passed
on out of the front door.

"E. Franklin, you have made a discovery. The pursuit of pure science never showed anything
half so interesting as this. You had better raise a cloud on the subject. Gad! It's cloudy
enough already!"

This to himself as he slowly went up stairs to his room. Selecting a pipe, he filled it, and
finding a comfortable seat, he fired up and prepared to examine mentally the events of the day.

"It was the confidential, making love to some village beauty, supposed to be 'Green,' by name,
if not by nature. Alma loves him. That's bad. Perhaps she's engaged to him. Has she a ring?
Yes--saw it the other day. The affair is cloudy--and--Gad! Blessed if I don't keep that lantern-slide!
It may be of use some day. Come in."

This last was in response to a knock at the door. Mr. Belford entered, panama hat with two
ribbons in hand.

"Good afternoon, Mr. Franklin. I thought I might find you here.".

"Yes, I'm at leisure. What can I do for you? Smoke?"

"No; I can't to-day. The fact is, I've a bad tooth, and smoking troubles it."

"Indeed? Let me see it. I'm a bit of a dentist."

"Are you? That's fortunate, for it aches sadly, and our nearest dentist is five miles away."

"Sit right here by the window, where I can have a good light."

Mr. Belford, a physical coward, could not bear pain; and though he was unwilling to be under
obligations to one whom he considered a mere boy, he sat down in the proffered chair, and opened
his mouth dutifully.

"Ah, yes--dentes sapentia. It's quite gone. Shall I take it out for you?"

"Will it be painful?"

"No. I'll give you nitrous oxide. Without it it might be very painful, for the tooth is much
broken down."

Mr. Belford hesitated. Had he better place himself so utterly at the mercy of this young man?

"It will pass off in a moment, and leave no ill effects behind. You had better take it."

"Well, I will; but make it very mild, for I am afraid of these new-fangled notions."

"You need have no fear," said Elmer, bringing up his iron box of nitrous oxide, and selecting
a pair of forceps from the mass of instruments in one of his trunks.

"It's very odd. It's the merest chance that I happened to have a pair of forceps. Are you ready
now? Put this tube in your mouth, and breathe easily and naturally."

The patient leaned back in the chair, and the amateur stood silently watching him.

"It's a fearful risk, but I'm going to try it. I succeeded with Alma, and I fancy I can with
this fool. He was a fool to run right into my arms in this fashion. No wonder his wisdom tooth
was rotten. I'll have it out in a moment."

All this to himself. The patient closed his eyes, and fell into a deep sleep.

"Take it strong. It will not hurt you, and I must keep you quiet till the deed is done."

High science was to be brought to bear upon rascality, and he must move cautiously and quickly.
The instant the patient was unconscious, Elmer bent over him and turned back his coat, and
from the inside pocket he drew forth a folded paper. He had caught a glimpse of it when he
looked in the man's mouth, and on the spur of the moment he had conceived and put into practice
this bold stroke of applied science. Making the man comfortable, and giving him a little air
with the gas, he opened the paper and spread it wide open before a pile of books in the full
sunlight. The patient stirred uneasily. With a breathless motion Elmer plied him with more
gas, and he sighed softly and slumbered deeper than ever. With a spring he reached the camera,
rolled it up before the paper, and set in a new slide. It copied the paper with terrible certainty,
and then, without reading it, Elmer folded the paper up again and restored it to his patient's
pocket.

The patient revived. He put his hand in his mouth. The tooth was still there.

"Why, you didn't touch it?"

"No. I was delayed a bit. Take the gas again."

The man submitted, and inhaled more gas. At the instant he slumbered the forceps were deftly
plied and the tooth removed. Bathing the man's face with water, the young dentist watched him
closely till he revived again.

"Do you feel better?"

"Better! Why, I'm not hurt! Is it really out?"

"Yes. There it is in the washbowl."

"You did very well, young man. Excellently. I'm sure I'm much obliged."

"You're welcome," replied Mr. Franklin. "It was a trifling affair."

Repeating his thanks, the visitor put on his hat with its two ribbons and retired.

For an hour or more the youthful son of science worked over his new negatives, and then he
quietly closed the shutters and lighted his stereopticon. The first picture he threw upon the
wall greatly pleased him. With half-parted lips, a placid smile, and closed eyes, the sleeping
Alma lived in shadowy beauty before him.

"Queer such a charming girl should belong to such a fool!"

Not choice language for a son of pure-eyed science, but history is history, and the truth must
be told.

"Now for the paper."

He took Alma's stolen picture from the lantern, and inserted in its place a positive copy of
the paper he had captured from her lover. Suddenly there flashed upon the wall a document of
the most startling and extraordinary character. He read it through several times before he
could bring himself to understand the peculiar nature of the important discovery he had made.
Long and earnestly he gazed upon the gigantic writing on the wall, and then he slowly opened
one of the shutters, and the magic writing faded away in the rosy light of the setting sun.

A moment after, the tea-bell rang. This over, young Mr. Franklin said he, must go out for his
evening constitutional. He wished to be alone. The events of the day, the discoveries he had
made, and, more than all, Alma's grief and silence at the supper-table, disturbed him. He wished
more air, more freedom to think over these things and to devise some plan for future action.

Alma. What of her? Was he not growing to like her--perhaps love her? And she was engaged to
that--that--he could not think of him with patience. The chimney, the two in the photo, and
the strange paper: what did they all mean? Why were both father and daughter in such evident
distress? He pondered these things as he walked through the shadowy lanes, and then, about
eight o'clock, he returned, in a measure composed and serene.

There was a light in the parlor, and he went in and found Alma alone.

"Oh, Elmer! I'm glad you've come. It's very lonely here. Father has gone to bed quite ill,
and Lawrence asked me to sit up till he returned. He's gone down to the village on some business.
I can't see why he should. The stores are closed and the last train has gone."

She made a place for him on the sofa, and he sat down beside her. For some time they talked
indifferently upon various matters--the weather, the heat of the day, and like trivialities.

Suddenly she turned upon him, and said, with ill-suppressed excitement:

"What did you do with it, Elmer?"

"Do with what?"

"The picture."

"Oh, yes--the lantern slide. I wish I had never made it. It's up stairs in my room."

"You didn't know it was Alice Green?"

"No. How should I? I did not know who either of the people was till the picture was thrown
upon the wall."

"Do you know now--know both of them, I mean?"

"Yes--I think I do. One was Mr.----"

"Yes, Elmer, you may as well say it. It was Lawrence."

Elmer could think of nothing to say, and wisely said nothing. After a brief pause Alma said
slowly, as if talking to herself:

"It was a cruel thing to do."

"I did not mean to be cruel."

"Oh, my dear--cousin, don't think of it in that way. It was Lawrence who was so cruel."

"Yes. It was not very gentlemanly; but perhaps he does not care for--for this person."

"He does. The picture was only confirmation of what I had heard before. I've done with him,"
she added in a sort of suppressed desperation. "I'm going to break our engagement this very
night. I know it will nearly break my heart, and father will be very angry; but, Elmer, come
nearer; let me tell you about it. I'm afraid of him. He has such an evil eye, and you remember
the chimney--the day you came--I thought he would kill you, he was so angry."

Evidently she was in sore trouble. Even her language was marked by doubt and difficulty.

"Advise me, Elmer. Tell me what to do. I hardly know which way to turn, and I'm so lonely.
Father is busy every day, and I can't talk to him. And Lawrence--I dare not trust him."

Here she began to cry softly, and hid her face in her handkerchief. The son of science was
perplexed. What should he do or say? All this was new to him. That a young and pretty girl
should appeal to him with such earnestness disconcerted him, and he did not know how to act.
A problem in triangulation or knotty question in physics would have charmed him and braced
him up for any work. This was so new and so peculiar that he said, "Don't cry, cousin," and
repented it at once as a silly speech.

"I must. It does me good."

"Then I would."

Thereupon they both laughed heartily and felt better. He recovered his wits at once.

"Do you think you really love him?"

The man of science is himself again.

"No, I don't."

"Then--well, it's hardly my place to say it."

"Then break the engagement. That's what you mean. I intend to do so; but, Elmer, I wish you
could be here with me."

"It would be impossible. Oh! I've an idea."

"Have you? There! I knew you would help me. You are so bright, Elmer, and so kind----"

He nipped her enthusiasm in the bud.

"Do you think you could telegraph to me from your pocket?"

"I don't know what you mean."

"You know the letters now perfectly, and if you had your hand on an armature, you could send
off messages quickly?"

"Yes. You know I learned the alphabet in one day, and it's nearly a week since you put up that
line to my room. Think how we have talked with it already. And you remember the tea table,
when the Lawsons and the Stebbens were here. Didn't I answer all your questions about Minna
Lawson while I was talking with her by tapping on the table with a spoon?"

"Yes. So far so good; but now I'm going to try a most dangerous and difficult piece of scientific
work, and you must help me. My plan is for you to keep in telegraphic communication with me
while the interview goes on. Then, if he is insulting or troublesome, you can call me."

"How bright of you, Elmer. If Lawrence had been half so good and kind and bright--if he knew
half as much--I might have loved him longer."

"Wait a bit, and I'll get the lines."

"May I go too?"

"Oh, yes; come."

The two went softly up the hall stairs, through the long entry to the L, and into Elmer's room.
They set the lamp on a table, and Elmer dragged forth from the scientific confusion of the
place a collection of telegraphic apparatus of all kinds.

"There's the battery. That I'll keep here. There is the recording instrument. That I'll keep
here also. Now you want a small armature to open and close the current. Wait a bit! I'd better
make one."

Alma sat down on a box, and her new Lohengrin set to work with shears and file to make something
that would answer for an armature and still be small enough to hide in the hand. Cutting off
two small pieces of insulated copper wire, he bound them together side by side at one end.
The loose ends he separated by crowding a bit of rubber between them, and then with the file
and his knife he removed a part of the insulating covering till the bright copper showed at
the tips of each wire.

"There! You can hide that in the pocket of your dress, or hold it in your hand even. When you
wish to close the circuit, pinch the wires, and they will touch each other. When you withdraw
the pressure the rubber will push them apart."

Alma declared she could do it easily, and the armature having been connected with the wires
and the battery, they both prepared to go to the parlor.

Down the stairs they crept, slowly unwinding two delicate coils of insulated wire as they went,
and pushing them back against the wall well out of sight. When they came to the mats Alma lifted
them up, and Elmer laid the wires down, and then the mats covered them from sight.

"Now, you sit here, in a comfortable chair, and hide the wires in the folds of your dress.
I'll lead them off over the carpet behind you, and unless the----Lawrence is brighter than
I think he is, he'll not find them."

These mysterious operations were hardly completed before the door bell rang and Lawrence came
in. He did not seem particularly pleased to find Mr. Franklin sitting up with Alma, and the
meeting was not very cordial. After a few unimportant remarks Mr. Franklin said that he must
retire.

"I'd like to know, miss, what that puppy said to you. He's been here all the evening, I dare say."

"He has, Lawrence; but I will not have my friends spoken of in that way."

"Your friends indeed! What do you intend to do about it?"

Meanwhile her hand, persistently kept in her pocket, nervously moved the electric armature,
and a sudden twinge of pain startled her. Her finger, caught between the wires, felt the shock
of a returning current. Suddenly the pain flashed again, and she understood it. Elmer was replying
to her. She forced herself to read his words by the pain the wires caused her, and she spelled out:

"Keep cool. Don't fear him."

"Seems to me you're precious silent, miss."

"One might well keep silence while you use such language as you do, Lawrence Belford."

"Who's a better right?"

"No man has a right not to be a gentleman, and as for your right, I have decided to withdraw it."

"What do you mean?" he cried in sudden anger.

She drew her hand out of her pocket, slowly took off her engagement ring, and said,

"That."

"Oh! We'll have none of that. You may put your ring on again."

"I shall never wear it again."

"Yes, you will."

"I shall not."

"Look here, Miss Denny. We'll have no nonsense. You are going to marry me next week. I suppose
you know that mortgage is to be foreclosed on Monday, and you and your father will be beggars.
I know how to stop all this, and I can do it. Marry me, and go to New York with me on Wednesday,
and the mortgage will be withdrawn."

"We may find the will before that."

"Oh! You may, you may. You and your father have been searching for that will these ten years.
You haven't found it yet, and you won't."

Alma under any ordinary circumstances would have quailed before this man. As it was, those
trails of copper wire down her dress kept her busy. She rapidly sent off through them nearly
all that was said, and her knight of the battery sat up stairs copying it off alone in his
room, and almost swearing with anger and excitement.

Suddenly the messages stopped. He listened sharply at the door. Not a sound. The old house
was as still as a grave. Several minutes passed, and nothing came. What had happened? Had he
cut the wires? Had Alma fainted? Suddenly the sounder spoke out sharp and clear in the silent room:

"Elmer, come!"

He seized a revolver from the bureau, and thrusting it into his pocket, tore off the white
strip of paper that had rolled out of the instrument, and with it in his hand he went quickly
down stairs. He opened the door without knocking, and advanced into the middle of the room.

The moment he entered, Alma sprang up from her seat, pulling out the two wires as she did so,
and throwing her arm about the young man, she cried out in an agony of fear and shame:

"Oh, Elmer, Elmer! Take me away! Take me to my father!"

He supported her with his right arm, and turned to face her assailant with the crumbled ribbon
of paper still in his hand.

"What does this mean, sir? Have you been ill treating my cousin?"

"Go to bed, boy. It's very late for school children to be up."

"Your language is insulting, sir. I repeat it. What have you said or done to Miss Denny?"

"Oh! Come away! come away, Elmer!"

"None of your business, you puppy."

"There is no need to ask what you said, sir. I know every word and have made a copy of it."

"Ah! Listening, were you?"

"No, sir. Miss Denny has told me. Do you see those wires? They will entangle you yet and trip
you up."

"Come away, Elmer. Come away."

"For the present I will retire, sir; but, mark me, your game is nearly up."

"By, by, children. Good night. Remember your promise, Miss Denny. The carriage will be all ready."

Without heeding this last remark, Elmer, with his cousin on his arm, withdrew. As they closed
the door the telegraph wires caught in the carpet and broke. The man saw them, and picking
one up, he examined it closely.

Suddenly he dropped it and turned ashen pale. With all his bravado, he quailed before those
slender wires upon the carpet. He did not understand them. He guessed they might be some kind
of telegraph, but beyond this everything was vague and mysterious, and they filled him with
guilty alarm and terror.

                                        CHARLES BARNARD.

FROM NORMANDY TO THE PYRENEES.

The other day, before the first fire of winter, when the deepening dusk had compelled me to
close my book and wheel my chair closer, I indulged in a retrospect. The objects of it were
not far distant, and yet they seemed already to glow with the mellow tints of the days that
are no more. In the crackling flame the last remnant of the summer appeared to shrink up and
vanish. But the flicker of its destruction made a sort of fantastic imagery, and in the midst
of the winter fire the summer sunshine seemed to glow. It lit up a series of visible memories.

I.

One of the first was that of a perfect day on the coast of Normandy--a warm, still Sunday in
the early part of August. From my pillow, on waking, I could look at a strip of blue sea and
a section of white cliff. I observed that the sea had never been so brilliant, and that the
cliff was shining like the coast of Paros. I rose and came forth with the sense that it was
the finest day of summer, and that one ought to do something uncommon by way of keeping it.
At Etretal it was uncommon to take a walk; the custom of the country is to lie all day upon
the pebbly strand watching, as we should say in America, your fellow boarders. Your leisurely
stroll, in a scanty sheet, from your bathing cabin into the water, and your trickling progress
from the water back into your cabin, form, as a general thing, the sum total of your peregrination.
For the rest you remain horizontal, contemplating the horizon. To mark the day with a white
stone, therefore, it was quite sufficient to stretch my legs. So I climbed the huge grassy
cliff which shuts in the little bay on the right (as you lie on the beach, head upward), and
gained the bleak white chapel of Notre Dame de la Garde, which a lady told me she was sure
was the original of Matthew Arnold's "Little Gray Church on the Windy Hill." This is very likely;
but the little church to-day was not gray; neither was the hill windy.

I had occasion, by the time I reached the summit, to wish it had been. Deep, silent sunshine
filled the air, and the long grass of the downs stood up in the light without a tremor. The
downs at Etretal are magnificent, and the way they stretched off toward Dieppe, with their
shining levels and their faintly-shaded dells, was in itself an irresistible invitation. On
the land side they have been somewhat narrowed by cultivation; the woods, and farms, and grain
fields here and there creep close enough to the edge of the cliff almost to see the shifting
of the tides at its base. But cultivation in Normandy is itself picturesque, and the pedestrian
rarely need resent its encroachments. Neither walls nor hedges or fences are anywhere visible;
the whole land lies open to the breezes and to his curious footsteps. This universal absence
of barriers gives an air of vastness to the landscape, so that really, in a little French province,
you have more of the feeling of being in a big country than on our own huge continent, which
bristles so unconsciously with prohibitory rails and stone-piles. Norman farmhouses, too, with
their mossy roofs and their visible beams making all kinds of triangles upon the ancient plaster
of their walls, are very delightful things. Hereabouts they have always a dark little wood
close beside them; often a chênaie, as the term is--a fantastic little grove of tempest-tossed
oaks. The trees look as if, some night, when the sea-blasts were howling their loudest and
their boughs were tossing most wildly, the tumult had suddenly been stilled and they had stopped
short, each in the attitude into which the storm was twisting it. The only thing the storm
can do with them now is to blow them straight. The long, indented coast line had never seemed
to me so charming. It stretched away into the light haze of the horizon, with such lovely violet
spots in its caves and hollows, and such soft white gleams on its short headlands--such exquisite
gradations of distance and such capricious interruptions of perspective--that one could only
say that the land was really trying to smile as hard as the sea. The smile of the sea was a
positive simper. Such a glittering and twinkling, such a softness and blueness, such tiny little
pin-points of foam, and such delicate little wrinkles of waves--all this made the ocean look
like a flattered portrait.

The day I speak of was a Sunday, and there were to be races at Fécamp, ten miles away. The
agreeable thing was, of course, to walk to Fécamp, over the grassy downs. I walked and walked,
over the levels and the dells, having land and ocean quite to myself. Here and there I met
a shepherd, lying flat on his stomach in the sun, while his sheep, in extreme dishabille (shearing
time being recent), went huddling in front of me as I approached. Far below, on the blue ocean,
like a fly on a table of lapis, crawled a little steamer, carrying people from Etretal to the
races. I seemed to go much faster, yet the steamer got to Fécamp before me. But I stopped to
gossip with a shepherd on a grassy hillside, and to admire certain little villages which are
niched in small, transverse, seaward-sloping valleys. The shepherd told me that he had been
farm-servant to the same master for five-and-thirty years--ever since the age of ten; and that
for thirty-five summers he had fed his flock upon those downs. I don't know whether his sheep
were tired of their diet, but he professed himself very tired of his life. I remarked that
in fine weather it must be charming, and he observed, with humility, that to thirty-five summers
there went several rainy days.

The walk to Fécamp would be purely delightful if it were not for the fonds. The fonds are the
transverse valleys just mentioned--the channels, for the most part, of small water-courses
which discharge themselves into the sea. The downs subside, precipitately, to the level of
the beach, and then slowly lift their grassy shoulders on the other side of the gully. As the
cliffs are of immense height, these indentations are profound, and drain off a little of the
exhilaration of the too elastic pedestrian. The first fond trike him as delightfully picturesque,
and he is down the long slope on one side and up the gigantic hump on the other before he has
time to feel hot. But the second is greeted with that tempered empressement with which you
bow in the street to an acquaintance with whom you have met half an hour before; the third
is a stale repetition; the fourth is decidedly one too many, and the fifth is sensibly exasperating.
The fonds, in a word, are very tiresome. It was, if I remember rightly, in the bottom of the
last and widest of the series that I discovered the little town of Yport. Every little fishing
village on the Norman coast has, within the last ten years, set up in business as a watering-place;
and, though one might fancy that Nature had condemned Yport to modest obscurity, it is plain
that she has no idea of being out of the fashion. But she is a miniature imitation of her rivals.
She has a meagre little wood behind her and an evil-smelling beach, on which bathing is possible
only at the highest tide. At the scorching mid-day hour at which I inspected her she seemed
absolutely empty, and the ocean, beyond acres of slippery seaweed, looked very far away. She
has everything that a properly appointed station de bains should have, but everything is on
a Lilliputian scale. The whole place looked like a huge Nüremburg toy. There is a diminutive
hotel, in which, properly, the head waiter should be a pigmy and the chambermaid a sprite,
and beside it there is a Casino on the smallest possible scale. Everything about the Casino
is so harmoniously undersized that it seems a matter of course that the newspapers in the reading-room
should be printed in the very finest type. Of course there is a reading-room, and a dancing-room,
and a café, and a billiard-room, with a bagatelle board instead of a table, and a little terrace
on which you may walk up and down with very short steps. I hope the prices are as tiny as everything
else, and I suspect, indeed, that Yport honestly claims, not that she is attractive, but that
she is cheap.

I toiled up the perpendicular cliff again, and took my way over the grass, for another hour,
to Fécamp, where I found the peculiarities of Yport directly reversed. The place is a huge,
straggling village, seated along a wide, shallow bay, and adorned, of course, with the classic
Casino and the row of hotels. But all this is on a very brave scale, though it is not manifest
that the bravery of Fécamp has won a victory; and, indeed, the local attractions did not strike
me as irresistible. A pebbly beach of immense length, fenced off from the town by a grassy
embankment; a Casino of a bold and unsociable aspect; a principal inn, with an interminable
brown façade, suggestive somehow of an asylum or an almshouse--such are the most striking features
of this particular watering-place. There are magnificent cliffs on each side of the bay, but,
as the French say, without impropriety, it is the devil to get to them. There was no one in
the hotel, in the Casino, or on the beach; the whole town being in the act of climbing the
further cliff, to reach the downs on which the races were to be held. The green hillside was
black with trudging spectators and the long sky line was fretted with them. When I say there
was no one at the inn, I forget the gentleman at the door who informed me positively that he
would give me no breakfast; he seemed to have staid at home from the races expressly to give
himself this pleasure. But I went further and fared better, and procured a meal of homely succulence,
in an unfashionable tavern, in a back street, where the wine was sound, the cutlets tender,
and the serving-maid rosy. Then I walked along--for a mile, it seemed--through a dreary, gray
grand rue, where the sunshine was hot, the odors portentous, and the doorsteps garnished with
aged fishwives, retired from business, whose plaited linen coifs looked picturesquely white,
and their faces picturesquely brown. I inspected the harbor and its goodly basin--with nothing
in it--and certain pink and blue houses, which surround it, and then, joining the last stragglers,
I clambered up the side of the cliff to the downs.

The races had already begun, and the ring of spectators was dense. I picked out some of the
smallest people, looked over their heads, and saw several young farmers, in parti-colored jackets,
and very red in the face, bouncing up and down on handsome cart-horses. Satiated at last with
this diversion, I turned away and wandered down the hill again; and after strolling through
the streets of Fécamp, and gathering not a little of the wayside entertainment that a seaport
and fishing town always yields, I repaired to the Abbey church, a monument of some importance,
and almost as great an object of pride in the town as the Casino. The Abbey of Fécamp was once
a very rich and powerful establishment, but nothing remains of it now save its church and its
trappistine. The church, which is for the most part early Gothic, is very stately and picturesque,
and the trappistine, which is a distilled liquor of the Chartreuse family, is much prized by
people who take a little glass after their coffee. By the time I had done with the Abbey, the
townsfolk had slid en masse down the cliff again, the yellow afternoon had come, and the holiday
takers, before the wine-shops, made long and lively shadows. I hired a sort of two-wheeled
gig, without a board, and drove back to Etretal in the rosy stage of evening. The gig dandled
me up and down in a fashion of which I had been unconscious since I left off baby-clothes;
but the drive, through the charming Norman country, over roads which lay among the peaceful
meadows like paths amid a park, was altogether delightful. The sunset gave a deeper mellowness
to the standing crops, and in the grassiest corner of the wayside villages the young men and
maidens were dancing like the figures in vignette illustrations of classic poets.

II.

You may say there is nothing in this very commonplace adventure to sentimentalize about, and
that when one plucks sentimentally a brand from the burning one should pick out a more valuable
one. I certainly call it a picked day, at any rate, when I went to breakfast at St. Jouin,
at the beautiful Ernestine's. Don't be alarmed; if I was just now too tame, I am not turning
wild. The beautiful Ernestine is not my especial beauty, but every one's, and to contemplate
her charms you have only to order breakfast. They shine forth the more brilliantly in proportion
as your order is liberal, and Ernestine is beautiful according as your bill is large. In this
case she comes and smiles, really very handsomely, around your table, and you feel some hesitation
in accusing so well-favored a person of extortion. She keeps an inn at the end of a lane which
diverges from the high road between Etretal and Havre, and it is an indispensable feature of
your "station" at the former place that you choose some fine morning and seek her hospitality.
She has been a celebrity these twenty years, and is no longer a simple maiden in her flower;
but twenty years, if they have diminished her early bloom, have richly augmented her museé.
This is a collection of all the verses and sketches, the autographs, photographs, monographs,
and trinkets presented to the amiable hostess by admiring tourists. It covers the walls of
her sitting-room and fills half a dozen big albums which you look at while breakfast is being
prepared, just as if you were awaiting dinner in genteel society. Most Frenchmen of the day
whom one has heard of appear to have called at St. Jouin, and to have left their homages. Each
of them has turned a compliment with pen or pencil, and you may see in a glass case on the
parlor wall what Alexandre Dumas, Fils, thought of the landlady's nose, and how several painters
measured her ankles.

