'Can you, who have never erred,' said Lady Emilia, 'see my offence in so fair a light? What
may I not then hope from infinite mercy? I do hope; it would be criminal to doubt, when such
consolatory promises appear in almost every page of holy writ. With pleasure I go where I am
called, for I leave my child safe in the Divine Protection, and her own virtue; I leave her,
I hope, to a happy life, and a far more happy death; when joys immortal will bless her through
all eternity. I have now, my love, discharged the burden from my mind; not many hours of life
remain, let me not pass them in caressing my dear daughter, which, though most pleasing to
my fond heart, can end only in making me regret the loss of a world which will soon pass from
my sight. Let me spend this hour, as I hope to do those that will succeed it through all eternity.
Join with me in prayers to, and praises of, him in whom consists all our lasting happiness.'

Miss Selvyn sent for the minister of the parish at Lady Emilia's desire, and the remainder
of her life passed in religious exercises. She expired without a groan, in the midst of a fervent
prayer, as if her soul was impatient to take its flight into the presence of him whom she was
addressing with so much ardour.

Miss Selvyn's affliction was at first extreme, but when she reflected on her mother's well-spent
life, and most happy death, it much abated the excess of her grief. By that lady's will, she
found herself heir to twelve thousand pounds, and all her personal estate. She had been charmed
with the account Lady Mary Jones had sent her of this society, and wished to increase her acquaintance
with that lady, and therefore offered, if proper, to make her a short visit, as soon as her
necessary affairs were settled. This met with the most welcome reception, and she came hither
as a visitor. Her stay was gradually prolonged for near two months; when having reason, from
the great regard shewn her, to think she should be no disagreeable addition, she asked leave
to join her fortune to the common stock, and to fix entirely with them. Nothing could be more
agreeable to the other three ladies than this offer, and with extreme satisfaction she settled
here.

Upon this increase of income it was that my friends established the community of indigent gentlewomen,
which gave you so much pleasure.

Lamont was much struck with the conduct of Lady Emilia; she had shewn, he said, a degree of
delicacy and prudence which exceeded what he had a notion of; he never met with a woman who
foresaw the little chance she had for happiness in marrying a man who could have no inducement
to make her his wife but a nice, often a too nice, sense of honour; and who certainly could
have no great opinion of her virtue. The folly of both men and women in these late unions was
the subject of our conversation till we separated. In the afternoon the ladies asked us to
accompany them to the house they had just taken for the new community, to which they were obliged
to go that day, as they had set several persons to work there. They keep a post-coach and post-chaise,
which with the help of ours, were sufficient to accommodate us all. A short time brought us
to the house, a very old and formerly a very fine mansion, but now much fallen to decay. The
outside is greatly out of repair, but the building seems strong. The inside is in a manner
totally unfurnished; for though it is not empty, yet the rats and mice have made such considerable
depredations on what time had before reduced to a very tattered condition that the melancholy
remains can be reckoned little better than lumber.

The last inhabitant of this house we were informed was an old miser whose passion for accumulating
wealth reduced him into almost as unfortunate a state as Midas, who, according to the fable,
having obtained the long-desired power of turning every thing he touched to gold, was starved
by the immediate transmutation of all food into that metal the instant it touched his lips.
The late possessor of the house I am speaking of, when he was about fifty years old, turned
away every servant but an old woman, who if she was not honest, was at least too weak to be
able to put any dishonesty in practice. When he was about threescore, she died, and he never
could venture to let any one supply her place. He fortified every door and window with such
bars of iron that his house might have resisted the forcible attack of a whole army. Night
and day growled before his inhospitable door a furious Dutch mastiff, whose natural ferocity
was so increased by continual hunger, for his master fed him most sparingly, that no stranger
could have entered the yard with impunity.

Every time this churlish beast barked, the old gentleman, with terror and dismay in his countenance,
and quaking limbs, ran to the only window he ever ventured to unbar, to see what danger threatened
him; nor could the sight of a barefoot child, or a decrepit old woman, immediately dispel his
fears. As timorous as Falstaff, his imagination first multiplied and then clothed them in buckram;
and his panic ceased not till they were out of view.

This wretched man upon the death of his only servant, agreed with an old woman to buy food
for him, and bring it to the well defended door of his yard; where informing him of her arrival
by a signal agreed upon between them, he ventured out of his house to receive it from her;
and dressed it himself; till worn out by anxiety of mind he grew too weak to perform that office
and ordered the woman to bring it ready prepared; this continued for a little time, till at
last he appeared no more at his gate. After the old woman had knocked three days in vain, the
neighbourhood began to think it necessary to take some measures thereupon; but not choosing
to run the hazard of breaking open the house, they sent to the old gentleman's nephew, whose
father had been suffered to languish in extreme poverty many years before his death; nor was
the son in much better condition; but he had acquainted some of the neighbours with the place
of his abode in hopes of the event which now induced them to send for him.

As soon as he arrived, he prepared to force his way into the house, but it was found so impracticable
that at length they were obliged to untile part of the roof, from whence a person descended,
and opened the door to those who did not choose so dangerous an entrance as that through which
he had passed.

They found the old man dead on a great chest which contained his money, as if he had been desirous
to take possession even in death.

His nephew was just of age, and having till then been exposed to all the evils of poverty,
was almost distracted with joy at the sudden acquisition of a large fortune. He scarcely could
be prevailed with to stay long enough in this house to pay the last duties to an uncle who
had no right to anything more from him than just the decent ceremonies; and without giving
himself time to look over his estate, hastened to London.

He hired a magnificent house in Grosvenor Square; bespoke the most elegant equipages; bought
the finest set of horses he could hear of at double their real value; and launched into every
expense the town afforded him. He soon became one of the most constant frequenters of Whites;
kept several running horses; distinguished himself at Newmarket, and had the honour of playing
deeper, and betting with more spirit, than any other young man of his age. There was not an
occurrence in his life about which he had not some wager depending. The wind could not change
or a shower fall without his either losing or gaining by it. He had not a dog or cat in his
house on whose life he had not bought or sold an annuity. By these ingenious methods in one
year was circulated through the kingdom the ready money which his uncle had been half his life
starving himself and family to accumulate. The second year obliged him to mortgage great part
of his land, and the third saw him reduced to sell a considerable portion of his estate, of
which this house and the land belonging to it made a part.

I could not help observing the various fate of this mansion, originally the seat of ancient
hospitality; then falling into the hands of a miser who had not spirit to enjoy it, nor sense
enough to see that he was impairing so valuable a part of his possessions by grudging the necessary
expenses of repairs; from him devolving to a young coxcomb who by neglect let it sink into
ruin and was spending in extravagance what he inherited from avarice; as if one vice was to
pay the debt to society which the other had incurred; and now it was purchased to be the seat
of charity and benevolence. How directly were we led to admire the superior sense, as well
as transcendent virtue of these ladies, when we compared the use they made of money with that
to which the two late possessors had appropriated it! While we were in doubt which most to
blame, he who had heaped it up without comfort, in sordid inhumanity, or he who squandered
it in the gratification of gayer vices. Equally strangers to beneficence, self-indulgence was
their sole view; alike criminal, though not equally unfashionable, one endeavoured to starve,
the other to corrupt mankind; while the new owners of this house had no other view than to
convenience and to reform all who came within their influence, themselves enjoying in a supreme
degree the happiness they dispersed around them.

It was pleasing to see numbers at work to repair the building and cultivate the garden and
to observe that at length from this inhospitable mansion, 'health to himself, and to his children
bread, the labourer bears.' Within it were all the biggest schoolgirls, with one of their mistresses
to direct them in mending such furniture as was not quite destroyed; and I was pleased to see
with how much art they repaired the decays of time, in things which well deserved better care,
having once been the richest part of the furniture belonging to the opulent possessors.

On our way home we called at a clergyman's house, which was placed in the finest situation
imaginable and where we beheld that profusion of comforts which sense and economy will enable
the possessors of narrow fortunes to enjoy. This gentleman and his wife have but a small living
and still less paternal estate, but the neatness, prettiness and convenience of their habitation
were enough to put one out of humour with riches, and I should certainly have breathed forth
Agar's prayer with great ardour if I had not been stopped in the beginning by considering how
great a blessing wealth may be when properly employed, of which I had then such hourly proof.

At our return to Millenium Hall we found some of the neighbouring society who were come to
share the evening's concert and sup with us.

But at ten o'clock they departed, which I understood was somewhat later than usual, but they
conformed to the alteration of hours our arrival had occasioned.

The next day being very hot, we were asked to breakfast in a delightful arbour in the flower
garden. The morning dew, which still refreshed the flowers, increased their fragrance to as
great an excess of sweetness as the senses could support. Till I went to this house, I knew
not half the charms of the country. Few people have the art of making the most of nature's
bounty; these ladies are epicures in rural pleasures and enjoy them in the utmost excess to
which they can be carried. All that romance ever represented in the plains of Arcadia are much
inferior to the charms of Millenium Hall, except the want of shepherds be judged a deficiency
that nothing else can compensate; there indeed they fall short of what romantic writers represent,
and have formed a female Arcadia.

After breakfast all the ladies left us except Mrs Maynard. We were so charmed with the spot
we were in that we agreed to remain there and I called on my cousin to continue the task she
had undertaken, which she did in the following manner.

THE HISTORY OF Miss TRENTHAM

Miss Trentham never knew the blessing of a mother's care, hers died the same month which gave
her daughter birth; and Mr Trentham survived his wife but eight years. He left his little girl
eleven thousand pounds, recommending both her person and fortune to his mother, Mrs Alworth.

Mrs Alworth was an old lady of good sense and merit. She had felt the most melancholy, but
not unusual effect of long life, having outlived all her children. This misfortune she alleviated
in the best manner she was able, by receiving her grandchildren into her family. Her son by
her second husband left behind him a boy and girl, the former at the time I speak of about
eleven years old, the latter ten. Her daughter had married Mr Denham and at her death left
two girls. Mr Denham entering into wedlock a second time, very willingly complied with Mrs
Alworth's desire of having his two daughters. The eldest of these was twelve years old, the
youngest eleven.

These children had lived with the old lady some years, when she took home Harriot Trentham.
As their grandmother was rich, there had been a strong contention among them for her favour,
and they could not without great disgust see another rival brought to the house. Harriot was
extremely handsome and engaging. The natural sweetness of her temper rendered her complying
and observant; but having been bred under the care of a sensible and indulgent father, she
had never been taught the little arts of behaviour which mothers too commonly inculcate with
so much care that children are as void of simplicity at eight as at eight and twenty years
old. The first thing a girl is taught is to hide her sentiments, to contradict the thoughts
of her heart, and tell all the civil lies which custom has sanctified, with as much affectation
and conceit as her mother; and when she has acquired all the folly and impertinence of a riper
age, and apes the woman more ungracefully than a monkey does a fine gentleman, the parents
congratulate themselves with the extremest complacency on the charming education they have
given their daughter.

Harriot had been taught no such lessons. Her father had a strong dislike to prematurity, and
feared that communication with the world would too soon teach her art and disguise, the last
things he would have chosen to anticipate.

By teaching her humanity, he initiated her into civility of manners. She had learnt that to
give pain was immoral; and could no more have borne to have shocked any person's mind than
to have racked his body. Any thought therefore that could hurt she suppressed as an indispensable
duty, and to please by her actions and not offend by her words was an essential part of the
religion in which she was educated: but in every thing whereby no one could suffer she was
innocence and simplicity itself; and in her nature shone pure and uncorrupted either by natural
or acquired vices.

Mrs Alworth, though fond of all her grandchildren, could not conquer a degree of partiality
for Harriot, whose attractions, both personal and mental, were very superior to those of her
cousins. Her beauty secured her the particular attention of all strangers, she gained their
favour at first sight, and secured it by her amiable disposition when they became more acquainted
with her.

Envy is one of the first passions that appears in the human mind. Had Miss Alworth and the
Miss Denhams been much younger, Harriot would not have passed unenvied. Every day increased
their dislike to her as she grew daily more beloved by others, and they let no opportunity
escape of making her feel the effects of their little malice. Their hatred to her produced
a union among themselves; for the first time they found something in which they all agreed.
They were continually laying little plots to lessen her in their grandmother's opinion; frequent
were the accusations against her, but her innocence always triumphed though it never discouraged
them from repeating the same unsuccessful attempts. Mrs Alworth was extremely fond of them
all, but yet she saw through their malice and their behaviour only served to endear Harriot
the more, who defended herself without anger and retained no rancour in her mind. Free from
resentment or suspicion she was ever open to their arts, and experience did not teach her to
be on her guard against them, which often occasioned their having appearances on their side,
and might have raised prejudices against her in Mrs Alworth's mind had she not found a defender
in Master Alworth, who alone of all her cousins was free from envy. He was naturally of an
honest and sweet disposition, and being fond of Harriot, for beauty has charms for all ages,
felt great indignation at the treatment she received and would often express a resentment from
which she was wholly free. Mrs Alworth's great fondness for her grandson and strong prejudices
against schools, from a belief that boys acquire there more vice than learning, had determined
on a private education. She therefore provided a tutor for him before he was seven years old;
a man of learning and sense, with a great deal of religion and good humour and who was very
attentive to the employment for which he had been chosen.

Master Alworth, by being thus kept at home, had frequent opportunities of observing the malice
of his sister and Miss Denham against Harriot and never failed exposing their practices to
his grandmother; who from thence learnt to suspect their reports about things which passed
in his absence and consequently could not be cleared up by him. His fondness for Harriot soon
made him beloved by her, and as she found little pleasure in the society of her other cousins,
she sought his company, but as he was much engaged by his studies she seldom found him at leisure
to play. The tutor, greatly delighted with her, tried to awaken in her mind a desire of improvement
and found it an easy task; she was inclined to learn and capable of doing it with great quickness.
Mrs Alworth readily entered into the good man's views, and was pleased with the eagerness of
Harriot's application. Master Alworth was far enough advanced in learning to assist his favourite,
and from him she received instruction with double pleasure and more easily comprehended his
explanations than those of their tutor, who found it difficult to divest himself sufficiently
of scientific terms, which greatly retard the increase of knowledge in a youthful mind.

Thus beloved by her grandmother and Mr Alworth, and hated and traduced by her female cousins,
Harriot lived till she was sixteen. Years had still improved her person and she had made considerable
progress in learning, when Mrs Alworth judged it proper that her grandson should go abroad
to complete an education which she flattered herself was hitherto faultless. He had no objection
to the scheme but what arose from his unwillingness to leave Harriot, who saw his departure
approach with great concern. She loved and respected her grandmother, but Mr Alworth was the
only person whom she could look upon in the tender and equal light of a friend. To be deprived
of his society was losing the chief pleasure of her life and her best guardian against her enemies.

