 But
Madame Goesler was a brunette,--swarthy, Lady Laura would have called her,--with bright eyes
and glossy hair and thin cheeks, and now being somewhat over thirty she was at her best. Lady
Laura hated her as a fair woman who has lost her beauty can hate the dark woman who keeps it.

"What made her think of the key?" said Lady Chiltern.

"I don't believe she did think of it. It was an accident."

"Then why did she go?"

"Oh, Violet, do not talk to me about that woman any more, or I shall be mad."

"She has done him good service."

"Very well;--so be it. Let him have the service. I know they would have acquitted him if she
had never stirred from London. Oswald says so. But no matter. Let her have her triumph. Only
do not talk to me about her. You know what I have thought about her ever since she first came
up in London. Nothing ever surprised me so much as that you should take her by the hand."

"I do not know that I took her specially by the hand."

"You had her down at Harrington."

"Yes; I did. And I do like her. And I know nothing against her. I think you are prejudiced
against her, Laura."

"Very well. Of course you think and can say what you please. I hate her, and that is sufficient."
Then, after a pause, she added, "Of course he will marry her. I know that well enough. It is
nothing to me whom he marries--only,--only,--only, after all that has passed it seems hard
upon me that his wife should be the only woman in London that I could not visit."

"Dear Laura, you should control your thoughts about this young man."

"Of course I should;--but I don't. You mean that I am disgracing myself."

"No."

"Yes, you do. Oswald is more candid, and tells me so openly. And yet what have I done? The
world has been hard upon me, and I have suffered. Do I desire anything except that he shall
be happy and respectable? Do I hope for anything? I will go back and linger out my life at
Dresden, where my disgrace can hurt no one." Her sister-in-law with all imaginable tenderness
said what she could to console the miserable woman;--but there was no consolation possible.
They both knew that Phineas Finn would never renew the offer which he had once made.

CHAPTER LXVI

The Foreign Bludgeon

In the meantime Madame Goesler, having accomplished the journey from Prague in considerably
less than a week, reached London with the blacksmith, the attorney's clerk, and the model of
the key. The trial had been adjourned on Wednesday, the 24th of June, and it had been suggested
that the jury should be again put into their box on that day week. All manner of inconvenience
was to be endured by various members of the legal profession, and sundry irregularities were
of necessity sanctioned on this great occasion. The sitting of the Court should have been concluded,
and everybody concerned should have been somewhere else, but the matter was sufficient to justify
almost any departure from routine. A member of the House of Commons was in custody, and it
had already been suggested that some action should be taken by the House as to his speedy deliverance.
Unless a jury could find him guilty, let him be at once restored to his duties and his privileges.
The case was involved in difficulties, but in the meantime the jury, who had been taken down
by train every day to have a walk in the country in the company of two sheriff's officers,
and who had been allowed to dine at Greenwich one day and at Richmond on another in the hope
that whitebait with lamb and salad might in some degree console them for their loss of liberty,
were informed that they would be once again put into their box on Wednesday. But Madame Goesler
reached London on the Sunday morning, and on the Monday the whole affair respecting the key
was unravelled in the presence of the Attorney-General, and with the personal assistance of
our old friend, Major Mackintosh. Without a doubt the man Mealyus had caused to be made for
him in Prague a key which would open the door of the house in Northumberland Street. A key
was made in London from the model now brought which did open the door. The Attorney-General
seemed to think that it would be his duty to ask the judge to call upon the jury to acquit
Phineas Finn, and that then the matter must rest for ever, unless further evidence could be
obtained against Yosef Mealyus. It would not be possible to hang a man for a murder simply
because he had fabricated a key,--even though he might possibly have obtained the use of a
grey coat for a few hours. There was no tittle of evidence to show that he had ever had the
great coat on his shoulders, or that he had been out of the house on that night. Lord Fawn,
to his infinite disgust, was taken to the prison in which Mealyus was detained, and was confronted
with the man, but he could say nothing. Mealyus, at his own suggestion, put on the coat, and
stalked about the room in it. But Lord Fawn would not say a word. The person whom he now saw
might have been the man in the street, or Mr. Finn might have been the man, or any other man
might have been the man. Lord Fawn was very dignified, very reserved, and very unhappy. To
his thinking he was the great martyr of this trial. Phineas Finn was becoming a hero. Against
the twelve jurymen the finger of scorn would never be pointed. But his sufferings must endure
for his life--might probably embitter his life to the very end. Looking into his own future
from his present point of view he did not see how he could ever again appear before the eye
of the public. And yet with what persistency of conscience had he struggled to be true and
honest! On the present occasion he would say nothing. He had seen a man in a grey coat, and
for the future would confine himself to that. "You did not see me, my lord," said Mr. Emilius
with touching simplicity.

So the matter stood on the Monday afternoon, and the jury had already been told that they might
be released on the following Tuesday,--might at any rate hear the judge's charge on that day,--when
another discovery was made more wonderful than that of the key. And this was made without any
journey to Prague, and might, no doubt, have been made on any day since the murder had been
committed. And it was a discovery for not having made which the police force generally was
subjected to heavy censure. A beautiful little boy was seen playing in one of those gardens
through which the passage runs with a short loaded bludgeon in his hand. He came into the house
with the weapon, the maid who was with him having asked the little lord no question on the
subject. But luckily it attracted attention, and his little lordship took two gardeners and
a coachman and all the nurses to the very spot at which he found it. Before an hour was over
he was standing at his father's knee, detailing the fact with great open eyes to two policemen,
having by this time become immensely proud of his adventure. This occurred late on the Monday
afternoon, when the noble family were at dinner, and the noble family was considerably disturbed,
and at the same time very much interested, by the occurrence. But on the Tuesday morning there
was the additional fact established that a bludgeon loaded with lead had been found among the
thick grass and undergrowth of shrubs in a spot to which it might easily have been thrown by
any one attempting to pitch it over the wall. The news flew about the town like wildfire, and
it was now considered certain that the real murderer would be discovered.

But the renewal of the trial was again postponed till the Wednesday, as it was necessary that
an entire day should be devoted to the bludgeon. The instrument was submitted to the eyes and
hands of persons experienced in such matters, and it was declared on all sides that the thing
was not of English manufacture. It was about a foot long, with a leathern thong to the handle,
with something of a spring in the shaft, and with the oval loaded knot at the end cased with
leathern thongs very minutely and skilfully cut. They who understood modern work in leather
gave it as their opinion that the weapon had been made in Paris. It was considered that Mealyus
had brought it with him, and concealed it in preparation for this occasion. If the police could
succeed in tracing the bludgeon into his hands, or in proving that he had purchased any such
instrument, then,--so it was thought,--there would be evidence to justify a police magistrate
in sending Mr. Emilius to occupy the place so lately and so long held by poor Phineas Finn.
But till that had been done, there could be nothing to connect the preacher with the murder.
All who had heard the circumstances of the case were convinced that Mr. Bonteen had been murdered
by the weapon lately discovered, and not by that which Phineas had carried in his pocket,--but
no one could adduce proof that it was so. This second bludgeon would no doubt help to remove
the difficulty in regard to Phineas, but would not give atonement to the shade of Mr. Bonteen.

Mealyus was confronted with the weapon in the presence of Major Mackintosh, and was told its
story;--how it was found in the nobleman's garden by the little boy. At the first moment, with
instant readiness, he took the thing in his hand, and looked at it with feigned curiosity.
He must have studied his conduct so as to have it ready for such an occasion, thinking that
it might some day occur. But with all his presence of mind he could not keep the tell-tale
blood from mounting.

"You don't know anything about it, Mr. Mealyus?" said one of the policemen present, looking
closely into his face. "Of course you need not criminate yourself."

"What should I know about it? No;--I know nothing about the stick. I never had such a stick,
or, as I believe, saw one before." He did it very well, but he could not keep the blood from
rising to his cheeks. The policemen were sure that he was the murderer,--but what could they do?

"You saved his life, certainly," said the Duchess to her friend on the Sunday afternoon. That
had been before the bludgeon was found.

"I do not believe that they could have touched a hair of his head," said Madame Goesler.

"Would they not? Everybody felt sure that he would be hung. Would it not have been awful? I
do not see how you are to help becoming man and wife now, for all the world are talking about
you." Madame Goesler smiled, and said that she was quite indifferent to the world's talk. On
the Tuesday after the bludgeon was found, the two ladies met again. "Now it was known that
it was the clergyman," said the Duchess.

"I never doubted it."

"He must have been a brave man for a foreigner,--to have attacked Mr. Bonteen all alone in
the street, when any one might have seen him. I don't feel to hate him so very much after all.
As for that little wife of his, she has got no more than she deserved."

"Mr. Finn will surely be acquitted now."

"Of course he'll be acquitted. Nobody doubts about it. That is all settled, and it is a shame
that he should be kept in prison even over to-day. I should think they'll make him a peer,
and give him a pension,--or at the very least appoint him secretary to something. I do wish
Plantagenet hadn't been in such a hurry about that nasty Board of Trade, and then he might
have gone there. He couldn't very well be Privy Seal, unless they do make him a peer. You wouldn't
mind,--would you, my dear?"

"I think you'll find that they will console Mr. Finn with something less gorgeous than that.
You have succeeded in seeing him, of course?"

"Plantagenet wouldn't let me, but I know who did."

"Some lady?"

"Oh, yes,--a lady. Half the men about the clubs went to him, I believe."

"Who was she?"

"You won't be ill-natured?"

"I'll endeavour at any rate to keep my temper, Duchess."

"It was Lady Laura."

"I supposed so."

"They say she is frantic about him, my dear."

"I never believe those things. Women do not get frantic about men in these days. They have
been very old friends, and have known each other for many years. Her brother, Lord Chiltern,
was his particular friend. I do not wonder that she should have seen him."

"Of course you know that she is a widow."

"Oh, yes;--Mr. Kennedy had died long before I left England."

"And she is very rich. She has got all Loughlinter for her life, and her own fortune back again.
I will bet you anything you like that she offers to share it with him."

"It may be so," said Madame Goesler, while the slightest blush in the world suffused her cheek.

"And I'll make you another bet, and give you any odds."

"What is that?"

"That he refuses her. It is quite a common thing nowadays for ladies to make the offer, and
for gentlemen to refuse. Indeed, it was felt to be so inconvenient while it was thought that
gentlemen had not the alternative, that some men became afraid of going into society. It is
better understood now."

"Such things have been done, I do not doubt," said Madame Goesler, who had contrived to avert
her face without making the motion apparent to her friend.

"When this is all over we'll get him down to Matching, and manage better than that. I should
think they'll hardly go on with the Session, as nobody has done anything since the arrest.
While Mr. Finn has been in prison legislation has come to a standstill altogether. Even Plantagenet
doesn't work above twelve hours a day, and I'm told that poor Lord Fawn hasn't been near his
office for the last fortnight. When the excitement is over they'll never be able to get back
to their business before the grouse. There'll be a few dinners of course, just as a compliment
to the great man,--but London will break up after that, I should think. You won't come in for
so much of the glory as you would have done if they hadn't found the stick. Little Lord Frederick
must have his share, you know."

"It's the most singular case I ever knew," said Sir Simon Slope that night to one of his friends.
"We certainly should have hanged him but for the two accidents, and yet neither of them brings
us a bit nearer to hanging any one else."

"What a pity!"

"It shows the danger of circumstantial evidence,--and yet without it one never could get at
any murder. I'm very glad, you know, that the key and the stick did turn up. I never thought
much about the coat."

CHAPTER LXVII

The Verdict

On the Wednesday morning Phineas Finn was again brought into the Court, and again placed in
the dock. There was a general feeling that he should not again have been so disgraced; but
he was still a prisoner under a charge of murder, and it was explained to him that the circumstances
of the case and the stringency of the law did not admit of his being seated elsewhere during
his trial. He treated the apology with courteous scorn. He should not have chosen, he said,
to have made any change till after the trial was over, even had any change been permitted.
When he was brought up the steps into the dock after the judges had taken their seats there
was almost a shout of applause. The crier was very angry, and gave it to be understood that
everybody would be arrested unless everybody was silent; but the Chief Justice said not a word,
nor did those great men the Attorney and Solicitor-General express any displeasure. The bench
was again crowded with Members of Parliament from both Houses, and on this occasion Mr. Gresham
himself had accompanied Lord Cantrip. The two Dukes were there, and men no bigger than Laurence
Fitzgibbon were forced to subject themselves to the benevolence of the Under-Sheriff.

Phineas himself was pale and haggard. It was observed that he leaned forward on the rail of
the dock all the day, not standing upright as he had done before; and they who watched him
closely said that he never once raised his eyes on this day to meet those of the men opposite
to him on the bench, although heretofore throughout the trial he had stood with his face raised
so as to look directly at those who were there seated. On this occasion he kept his eyes fixed
upon the speaker. But the whole bearing of the man, his gestures, his gait, and his countenance
were changed. During the first long week of his trial, his uprightness, the manly beauty of
his countenance, and the general courage and tranquillity of his deportment had been conspicuous.
Whatever had been his fatigue, he had managed not to show the outward signs of weariness. Whatever
had been his fears, no mark of fear had disfigured his countenance. He had never once condescended
to the exhibition of any outward show of effrontery. Through six weary days he had stood there,
supported by a manhood sufficient for the terrible emergency. But now it seemed that at any
rate the outward grace of his demeanour had deserted him. But it was known that he had been
ill during the last few days, and it had been whispered through the Court that he had not slept
at nights. Since the adjournment of the Court there had been bulletins as to his health, and
everybody knew that the confinement was beginning to tell upon him.

On the present occasion the proceedings of the day were opened by the Attorney-General, who
began by apologising to the jury. Apologies to the jury had been very frequent during the trial,
and each apology had called forth fresh grumbling. On this occasion the foreman expressed a
hope that the Legislature would consider the condition of things which made it possible that
twelve gentlemen all concerned extensively in business should be confined for fourteen days
because a mistake had been made in the evidence as to a murder. Then the Chief Justice, bowing
down his head and looking at them over the rim of his spectacles with an expression of wisdom
that almost convinced them, told them that he was aware of no mistake in the evidence. It might
become their duty, on the evidence which they had heard and the further evidence which they
would hear, to acquit the prisoner at the bar; but not on that account would there have been
any mistake or erroneous procedure in the Court, other than such error on the part of the prosecution
in regard to the alleged guilt of the prisoner as it was the general and special duty of jurors
to remedy. Then he endeavoured to reconcile them to their sacrifice by describing the importance
and glorious British nature of their position. "My lord," said one of the jurors, "if you was
a salesman, and hadn't got no partner, only a very young 'un, you'd know what it was to be
kept out of your business for a fortnight." Then that salesman wagged his head, and put his
handkerchief up to his eyes, and there was pity also for him in the Court.

After that the Attorney-General went on. His learned friend on the other side,--and he nodded
to Mr. Chaffanbrass,--had got some further evidence to submit to them on behalf of the prisoner
who was still on his trial before them. He now addressed them with the view of explaining to
them that if that evidence should be such as he believed, it would become his duty on behalf
of the Crown to join with his learned friend in requesting the Court to direct the jury to
acquit the prisoner. Not the less on that account would it be the duty of the jury to form
their own opinion as to the credibility of the fresh evidence which would be brought before them.

"There won't be much doubt about the credibility," said Mr. Chaffanbrass, rising in his place.
"I am not a bit afraid about the credibility, gentlemen; and I don't think that you need be
afraid either. You must understand, gentlemen, that I am now going on calling evidence for
the defence. My last witness was the Right Honourable Mr. Monk, who spoke as to character.
My next will be a Bohemian blacksmith named Praska,--Peter Praska,--who naturally can't speak
a word of English, and unfortunately can't speak a word of German either. But we have got an
interpreter, and I daresay we shall find out without much delay what Peter Praska has to tell
us." Then Peter Praska was handed up to the rostrum for the witnesses, and the man learned
in Czech and also in English was placed close to him, and sworn to give a true interpretation.

Mealyus the unfortunate one was also in Court, brought in between two policemen, and the Bohemian
blacksmith swore that he had made a certain key on the instructions of the man he now saw.
The reader need not be further troubled with all the details of the evidence about the key.
It was clearly proved that in a village near to Prague a key had been made such as would open
Mr. Meager's door in Northumberland Street, and it was also proved that it was made from a
mould supplied by Mealyus. This was done by the joint evidence of Mr. Meager and of the blacksmith.
"And if I lose my key," said the reverend gentleman, "why should I not have another made? Did
I ever deny it? This, I think, is very strange." But Mr. Emilius was very quickly walked back
out of the Court between the two policemen, as his presence would not be required in regard
to the further evidence regarding the bludgeon.

Mr. Chaffanbrass, having finished his business with the key, at once began with the bludgeon.
The bludgeon was produced, and was handed up to the bench, and inspected by the Chief Justice.
The instrument excited great interest. Men rose on tiptoe to look at it even from a distance,
and the Prime Minister was envied because for a moment it was placed in his hands. As the large-eyed
little boy who had found it was not yet six years old, there was a difficulty in perfecting
the thread of the evidence. It was not held to be proper to administer an oath to an infant.
But in a roundabout way it was proved that the identical bludgeon had been picked up in the
garden. There was an elaborate surveyor's plan produced of the passage, the garden, and the
wall,--with the steps on which it was supposed that the blow had been struck; and the spot
was indicated on which the child had said that he had found the weapon. Then certain workers
in leather were questioned, who agreed in asserting that no such instrument as that handed
to them had ever been made in England. After that, two scientific chemists told the jury that
they had minutely examined the knob of the instrument with reference to the discovery of human
blood,--but in vain. They were, however, of opinion that the man might very readily have been
killed by the instrument without any effusion of blood at the moment of the blows. This seemed
to the jury to be the less necessary, as three or four surgeons who had examined the murdered
man's head had already told them that in all probability there had been no such effusion. When
the judges went out to lunch at two o'clock the jury were trembling as to their fate for another
night.

The fresh evidence, however, had been completed, and on the return of the Court Mr. Chaffanbrass
said that he should only speak a very few words. For a few words he must ask indulgence, though
he knew them to be irregular. But it was the speciality of this trial that everything in it
was irregular, and he did not think that his learned friend the Attorney-General would dispute
the privilege. The Attorney-General said nothing, and Mr. Chaffanbrass went on with his little
speech,--with which he took up the greatest part of an hour. It was thought to have been unnecessary,
as nearly all that he said was said again--and was sure to have been so said,--by the judge.
It was not his business,--the business of him, Mr. Chaffanbrass,--to accuse another man of
the murder of Mr. Bonteen. It was not for him to tell the jury whether there was or was not
evidence on which any other man should be sent to trial. But it was his bounden duty in defence
of his client to explain to them that a collection of facts tending to criminate another man,--which
when taken together made a fair probability that another man had committed the crime,--rendered
it quite out of the question that they should declare his client to be guilty. He did not believe
that there was a single person in the Court who was not now convinced of the innocence of his
client;--but it was not permitted to him to trust himself solely to that belief. It was his
duty to show them that, of necessity, they must acquit his client. When Mr. Chaffanbrass sat
down, the Attorney-General waived any right he might have of further reply.

It was half-past three when the judge began his charge. He would, he said, do his best to enable
the jury to complete their tedious duty, so as to return to their families on that night. Indeed
he would certainly finish his charge before he rose from the seat, let the hour be what it
might; and though time must be occupied by him in going through the evidence and explaining
the circumstances of this very singular trial, it might not be improbable that the jury would
be able to find their verdict without any great delay among themselves. "There won't be any
delay at all, my lord," said the suffering and very irrational salesman. The poor man was again
rebuked, mildly, and the Chief Justice continued his charge.

As it occupied four hours in the delivery, of which by far the greater part was taken up in
recapitulating and sifting evidence with which the careful reader, if such there be, has already
been made too intimately acquainted, the account of it here shall be very short. The nature
of circumstantial evidence was explained, and the truth of much that had been said in regard
to such evidence by Mr. Chaffanbrass admitted;--but, nevertheless, it would be impossible,--so
said his lordship,--to administer justice if guilt could never be held to have been proved
by circumstantial evidence alone. In this case it might not improbably seem to them that the
gentleman who had so long stood before them as a prisoner at the bar had been the victim of
a most singularly untoward chain of circumstances, from which he would have to be liberated,
should he be at last liberated, by another chain of circumstances as singular; but it was his
duty to inform them now, after they had heard what he might call the double evidence, that
he could not have given it to them as his opinion that the charge had been brought home against
the prisoner, even had those circumstances of the Bohemian key and of the foreign bludgeon
never been brought to light. He did not mean to say that the evidence had not justified the
trial. He thought that the trial had been fully justified. Nevertheless, had nothing arisen
to point to the possibility of guilt in another man, he should not the less have found himself
bound in duty to explain to them that the thread of the evidence against Mr. Finn had been
incomplete,--or, he would rather say, the weight of it had been, to his judgment, insufficient.
He was the more intent on saying so much, as he was desirous of making it understood that,
even had the bludgeon still remained buried beneath the leaves, had the manufacturer of that
key never been discovered, the great evil would not, he thought, have fallen upon them of punishing
the innocent instead of the guilty,--that most awful evil of taking innocent blood in their
just attempt to punish murder by death. As far as he knew, to the best of his belief, that
calamity had never fallen upon the country in his time. The administration of the law was so
careful of life that the opposite evil was fortunately more common. He said so much because
he would not wish that this case should be quoted hereafter as showing the possible danger
of circumstantial evidence. It had been a case in which the evidence given as to character
alone had been sufficient to make him feel that the circumstances which seemed to affect the
prisoner injuriously could not be taken as establishing his guilt. But now other and imposing
circumstances had been brought to light, and he was sure that the jury would have no difficulty
with their verdict. A most frightful murder had no doubt been committed in the dead of the
night. A gentleman coming home from his club had been killed,--probably by the hand of one
who had himself moved in the company of gentlemen. A plot had been made,--had probably been
thought of for days and weeks before,--and had been executed with extreme audacity, in order
that an enemy might be removed. There could, he thought, be but little doubt that Mr. Bonteen
had been killed by the instrument found in the garden, and if so, he certainly had not been
killed by the prisoner, who could not be supposed to have carried two bludgeons in his pocket,
and whose quarrel with the murdered man had been so recent as to have admitted of no preparation.
They had heard the story of Mr. Meager's grey coat, and of the construction of the duplicate
key for Mr. Meager's house-door. It was not for him to tell them on the present occasion whether
these stories, and the evidence by which they had been supported, tended to affix guilt elsewhere.
It was beyond his province to advert to such probability or possibility; but undoubtedly the
circumstances might be taken by them as an assistance, if assistance were needed, in coming
to a conclusion on the charge against the prisoner. "Gentlemen," he said at last, "I think
you will find no difficulty in acquitting the prisoner of the murder laid to his charge," whereupon
the jurymen put their heads together; and the foreman, without half a minute's delay, declared
that they were unanimous, and that they found the prisoner Not Guilty. "And we are of opinion,"
said the foreman, "that Mr. Finn should not have been put upon his trial on such evidence as
has been brought before us."

The necessity of liberating poor Phineas from the horrors of his position was too urgent to
allow of much attention being given at the moment to this protest. "Mr. Finn," said the judge,
addressing the poor broken wretch, "you have been acquitted of the odious and abominable charge
brought against you, with the concurrence, I am sure, not only of those who have heard this
trial, but of all your countrymen and countrywomen. I need not say that you will leave that
dock with no stain on your character. It has, I hope, been some consolation to you in your
misfortune to hear the terms in which you have been spoken of by such friends as they who came
here to give their testimony on your behalf. It is, and it has been, a great sorrow to me to
see such a one as you subjected to so unmerited an ignominy; but a man educated in the laws
of his country, as you have been, and understanding its constitution fundamentally, as you
do, will probably have acknowledged that, great as has been the misfortune to you personally,
nothing more than a proper attempt has been made to execute justice. I trust that you may speedily
find yourself able to resume your place among the legislators of the country." Thus Phineas
Finn was acquitted, and the judges, collecting up their robes, trooped off from the bench,
following the long line of their assessors who had remained even to that hour to hear the last
word of the trial. Mr. Chaffanbrass collected his papers, with the assistance of Mr. Wickerby,--totally
disregardful of his junior counsel, and the Attorney and Solicitor-General congratulated each
other on the successful termination of a very disagreeable piece of business.

And Phineas was discharged. According to the ordinary meaning of the words he was now to go
about his business as he pleased, the law having no further need of his person. We can understand
how in common cases the prisoner discharged on his acquittal,--who probably in nine cases out
of ten is conscious of his own guilt,--may feel the sweetness of his freedom and enjoy his
immunity from danger with a light heart. He is received probably by his wife or young woman,--or
perhaps, having no wife or young woman to receive him, betakes himself to his usual haunts.
The interest which has been felt in his career is over, and he is no longer the hero of an
hour;--but he is a free man, and may drink his gin-and-water where he pleases. Perhaps a small
admiring crowd may welcome him as he passes out into the street, but he has become nobody before
he reaches the corner. But it could not be so with this discharged prisoner,--either as regarded
himself and his own feelings, or as regarded his friends. When the moment came he had hardly
as yet thought about the immediate future,--had not considered how he would live, or where,
during the next few months. The sensations of the moment had been so full, sometimes of agony
and at others of anticipated triumph, that he had not attempted as yet to make for himself
any schemes. The Duchess of Omnium had suggested that he would be received back into society
with an elaborate course of fashionable dinners; but that view of his return to the world had
certainly not occurred to him. When he was led down from the dock he hardly knew whither he
was being taken, and when he found himself in a small room attached to the Court, clasped on
one arm by Mr. Low and on the other by Lord Chiltern, he did not know what they would propose
to him,--nor had he considered what answer he would make to any proposition. "At last you are
safe," said Mr. Low.

"But think what he has suffered," said Lord Chiltern.

Phineas looked round to see if there was any other friend present. Certainly among all his
friends he had thought most of her who had travelled half across Europe for evidence to save
him. He had seen Madame Goesler last on the evening preceding the night of the murder, and
had not even heard from her since. But he had been told what she had done for him, and now
he had almost fancied that he would have found her waiting for him. He smiled first at the
one man and then at the other, and made an effort to carry himself with his ordinary tranquillity.
"It will be all right now, I dare say," he said. "I wonder whether I could have a glass of water."

He sat down while the water was brought to him, and his two friends stood over him, hardly
knowing how to do more than support him by their presence.

Then Lord Cantrip made his way into the room. He had sat on the bench to the last, whereas
the other two had gone down to receive the prisoner when acquitted;--and with him came Sir
Harry Coldfoot, the Home Secretary. "My friend," said the former, "the bitter day has passed
over you, and I hope that the bitterness will soon pass away also." Phineas again attempted
to smile as he held the hand of the man with whom he had formerly been associated in office.

"I should not intrude, Mr. Finn," said Sir Harry, "did I not feel myself bound in a special
manner to express my regret at the great trouble to which you have been subjected." Phineas
rose, and bowed stiffly. He had conceived that every one connected with the administration
of the law had believed him to be guilty, and none in his present mood could be dear to him
but they who from the beginning trusted in his innocence. "I am requested by Mr. Gresham,"
continued Sir Harry, "to express to you his entire sympathy, and his joy that all this is at
last over." Phineas tried to make some little speech, but utterly failed. Then Sir Harry left
them, and he burst out into tears.

"Who can be surprised?" said Lord Cantrip. "The marvel is that he should have been able to
bear it so long."

"It would have crushed me utterly, long since," said the other lord. Then there was a question
asked as to what he would do, and Mr. Low proposed that he should be allowed to take Phineas
to his own house for a few days. His wife, he said, had known their friend so long and so intimately
that she might perhaps be able to make herself more serviceable than any other lady, and at
their house Phineas could receive his sisters just as he would at his own. His sisters had
been lodging near the prison almost ever since the committal, and it had been thought well
to remove them to Mr. Low's house in order that they might meet their brother there.

"I think I'll go to my--own room--in Marlborough Street." These were the first intelligible
words he had uttered since he had been led out of the dock, and to that resolution he adhered.
Lord Cantrip offered the retirements of a country house belonging to himself within an hour's
journey of London, and Lord Chiltern declared that Harrington Hall, which Phineas knew, was
altogether at his service,--but Phineas decided in favour of Mrs. Bunce, and to Great Marlborough
Street he was taken by Mr. Low.

"I'll come to you to-morrow,--with my wife,"--said Lord Chiltern, as he was going.

"Not to-morrow, Chiltern. But tell your wife how deeply I value her friendship." Lord Cantrip
also offered to come, but was asked to wait awhile. "I am afraid I am hardly fit for visitors
yet. All the strength seems to have been knocked out of me this last week."

Mr. Low accompanied him to his lodgings, and then handed him over to Mrs. Bunce, promising
that his two sisters should come to him early on the following morning. On that evening he
would prefer to be quite alone. He would not allow the barrister even to go upstairs with him;
and when he had entered his room, almost rudely begged his weeping landlady to leave him.

"Oh, Mr. Phineas, let me do something for you," said the poor woman. "You have not had a bit
of anything all day. Let me get you just a cup of tea and a chop."

In truth he had dined when the judges went out to their lunch,--dined as he had been wont to
dine since the trial had been commenced,--and wanted nothing. She might bring him tea, he said,
if she would leave him for an hour. And then at last he was alone. He stood up in the middle
of the room, stretching forth his hands, and putting one first to his breast and then to his
brow, feeling himself as though doubting his own identity. Could it be that the last week had
been real,--that everything had not been a dream? Had he in truth been suspected of a murder
and tried for his life? And then he thought of him who had been murdered, of Mr. Bonteen, his
enemy. Was he really gone,--the man who the other day was to have been Chancellor of the Exchequer,--the
scornful, arrogant, loud, boastful man? He had hardly thought of Mr. Bonteen before, during
these weeks of his own incarceration. He had heard all the details of the murder with a fulness
that had been at last complete. The man who had oppressed him, and whom he had at times almost
envied, was indeed gone, and the world for awhile had believed that he, Phineas Finn, had been
the man's murderer!

And now what should be his own future life? One thing seemed certain to him. He could never
again go into the House of Commons, and sit there, an ordinary man of business, with other
ordinary men. He had been so hacked and hewed about, so exposed to the gaze of the vulgar,
so mauled by the public, that he could never more be anything but the wretched being who had
been tried for the murder of his enemy. The pith had been taken out of him, and he was no longer
a man fit for use. He could never more enjoy that freedom from self-consciousness, that inner
tranquillity of spirit, which are essential to public utility. Then he remembered certain lines
which had long been familiar to him, and he repeated them aloud, with some conceit that they
were apposite to him:--

   The true gods sigh for the cost and pain,--
   For the reed that grows never more again
      As a reed with the reeds in the river.

He sat drinking his tea, still thinking of himself,--knowing how infinitely better it would
be for him that he should indulge in no such thought, till an idea struck him, and he got up,
and, drawing back the blinds from the open window, looked out into the night. It was the last
day of June, and the weather was very sultry; but the night was dark, and it was now near midnight.
On a sudden he took his hat, and feeling with a smile for the latchkey which he always carried
in his pocket,--thinking of the latchkey which had been made at Prague for the lock of a house
in Northumberland Street, New Road, he went down to the front door. "You'll be back soon, Mr.
Finn, won't you now?" said Mrs. Bunce, who had heard his step, and had remained up, thinking
it better this, the first night of his return, not to rest till he had gone to his bed.

"Why should I be back soon?" he said, turning upon her. But then he remembered that she had
been one of those who were true to him, and he took her hand and was gracious to her. "I will
be hack soon, Mrs. Bunce, and you need fear nothing. But recollect how little I have had of
liberty lately. I have not even had a walk for six weeks. You cannot wonder that I should wish
to roam about a little." Nevertheless she would have preferred that he should not have gone
out all alone on that night.

He had taken off the black morning coat which he had worn during the trial, and had put on
that very grey garment by which it had been sought to identify him with the murderer. So clad
he crossed Regent Street into Hanover Square, and from thence went a short way down Bond Street,
and by Bruton Street into Berkeley Square. He took exactly the reverse of the route by which
he had returned home from the club on the night of the murder. Every now and then he trembled
as he passed some figure which might be that of a man who would recognise him. But he walked
fast, and went on till he came to the spot at which the steps descend from the street into
the passage,--the very spot at which the murder had been committed. He looked down it with
an awful dread, and stood there as though he were fascinated, thinking of all the details which
he had heard throughout the trial. Then he looked around him, and listened whether there were
any step approaching through the passage. Hearing none and seeing no one he at last descended,
and for the first time in his life passed through that way into Bolton Row. Here it was that
the wretch of whom he had now heard so much had waited for his enemy,--the wretch for whom
during the last six weeks he had been mistaken. Heavens!--that men who had known him should
have believed him to have done such a deed as that! He remembered well having shown the life-preserver
to Erle and Fitzgibbon at the door of the club; and it had been thought that after having so
shown it he had used it for the purpose to which in his joke he had alluded! Were men so blind,
so ignorant of nature, so little capable of discerning the truth as this? Then he went on till
he came to the end of Clarges Street, and looked up the mews opposite to it,--the mews from
which the man had been seen to hurry. The place was altogether unknown to him. He had never
thought whither it had led when passing it on his way up from Piccadilly to the club. But now
he entered the mews so as to test the evidence that had been given, and found that it brought
him by a turn close up to the spot at which he had been described as having been last seen
by Erle and Fitzgibbon. When there he went on, and crossed the street, and looking back saw
the club was lighted up. Then it struck him for the first time that it was the night of the
week on which the members were wont to assemble. Should he pluck up courage, and walk in among
them? He had not lost his right of entry there because he had been accused of murder. He was
the same now as heretofore,--if he could only fancy himself to be the same. Why not go in,
and have done with all this? He would be the wonder of the club for twenty minutes, and then
it would all be over. He stood close under the shade of a heavy building as he thought of this,
but he found that he could not do it. He had known from the beginning that he could not do
it. How callous, how hard, how heartless, must he have been, had such a course been possible
to him! He again repeated the lines to himself--

   The reed that grows never more again
      As a reed with the reeds in the river.

He felt sure that never again would he enter that room, in which no doubt all those assembled
were now talking about him.

As he returned home he tried to make out for himself some plan for his future life,--but, interspersed
with any idea that he could weave were the figures of two women, Lady Laura Kennedy and Madame
Max Goesler. The former could be nothing to him but a friend; and though no other friend would
love him as she loved him, yet she could not influence his life. She was very wealthy, but
her wealth could be nothing to him. She would heap it all upon him if he would take it. He
understood and knew that. Taking no pride to himself that it was so, feeling no conceit in
her love, he was conscious of her devotion to him. He was poor, broken in spirit, and almost
without a future;--and yet could her devotion avail him nothing!

But how might it be with that other woman? Were she, after all that had passed between them,
to consent to be his wife,--and it might be that she would consent,--how would the world be
with him then? He would be known as Madame Goesler's husband, and have to sit at the bottom
of her table,--and be talked of as the man who had been tried for the murder of Mr. Bonteen.
Look at it in which way he might, he thought that no life could any longer be possible to him
in London.

CHAPTER LXVIII

Phineas after the Trial

Ten days passed by, and Phineas Finn had not been out of his lodgings till after daylight,
and then he only prowled about in the manner described in the last chapter. His sisters had
returned to Ireland, and he saw no one, even in his own room, but two or three of his most
intimate friends. Among those Mr. Low and Lord Chiltern were the most frequently with him,
but Fitzgibbon, Barrington Erle, and Mr. Monk had also been admitted. People had called by
the hundred, till Mrs. Bunce was becoming almost tired of her lodger's popularity; but they
came only to inquire,--because it had been reported that Mr. Finn was not well after his imprisonment.
The Duchess of Omnium had written to him various notes, asking when he would come to her, and
what she could do for him. Would he dine, would he spend a quiet evening, would he go to Matching?
Finally, would he become her guest and the Duke's next September for the partridge shooting?
They would have a few friends with them, and Madame Goesler would be one of the number. Having
had this by him for a week, he had not as yet answered the invitation. He had received two
or three notes from Lady Laura, who had frankly explained to him that if he were really ill
she would of course go to him, but that as matters stood she could not do so without displeasing
her brother. He had answered each note by an assurance that his first visit should be made
in Portman Square. To Madame Goesler he had written a letter of thanks,--a letter which had
in truth cost him some pains. "I know," he said, "for how much I have to thank you, but I do
not know in what words to do it. I ought to be with you telling you in person of my gratitude;
but I must own to you that for the present what has occurred has so unmanned me that I am unfit
for the interview. I should only weep in your presence like a school-girl, and you would despise
me." It was a long letter, containing many references to the circumstances of the trial, and
to his own condition of mind throughout its period. Her answer to him, which was very short,
was as follows:--

   Park Lane, Sunday--

   MY DEAR MR. FINN,

   I can well understand that for a while you should be too
   agitated by what has passed to see your friends. Remember,
   however, that you owe it to them as well as to yourself
   not to sink into seclusion. Send me a line when you think
   that you can come to me that I may be at home. My journey
   to Prague was nothing. You forget that I am constantly
   going to Vienna on business connected with my own property
   there. Prague lies but a few hours out of the route.

   Most sincerely yours,

   M. M. G.

His friends who did see him urged him constantly to bestir himself, and Mr. Monk pressed him
very much to come down to the House. "Walk in with me to-night, and take your seat as though
nothing had happened," said Mr. Monk.

"But so much has happened."

"Nothing has happened to alter your outward position as a man. No doubt many will flock round
you to congratulate you, and your first half-hour will be disagreeable; but then the thing
will have been done. You owe it to your constituents to do so." Then Phineas for the first
time expressed an opinion that he would resign his seat,--that he would take the Chiltern Hundreds,
and retire altogether from public life.

"Pray do nothing of the kind," said Mr. Monk.

"I do not think you quite understand," said Phineas, "how such an ordeal as this works upon
a man, how it may change a man, and knock out of him what little strength there ever was there.
I feel that I am broken, past any patching up or mending. Of course it ought not to be so.
A man should be made of better stuff;--but one is only what one is."

"We'll put off the discussion for another week," said Mr. Monk.

"There came a letter to me when I was in prison from one of the leading men in Tankerville,
saying that I ought to resign. I know they all thought that I was guilty. I do not care to
sit for a place where I was so judged,--even if I was fit any longer for a seat in Parliament."
He had never felt convinced that Mr. Monk had himself believed with confidence his innocence,
and he spoke with soreness, and almost with anger.

"A letter from one individual should never be allowed to create interference between a member
and his constituents. It should simply be answered to that effect, and then ignored. As to
the belief of the townspeople in your innocence,--what is to guide you? I believed you innocent
with all my heart."

"Did you?"

"But there was always sufficient possibility of your guilt to prevent a rational man from committing
himself to the expression of an absolute conviction." The young member's brow became black
as he heard this. "I can see that I offend you by saying so,--but if you will think of it,
I must be right. You were on your trial; and I as your friend was bound to await the result,--with
much confidence, because I knew you; but with no conviction, because both you and I are human
and fallible. If the electors at Tankerville, or any great proportion of them, express a belief
that you are unfit to represent them because of what has occurred, I shall be the last to recommend
you to keep your seat;--but I shall be surprised indeed if they should do so. If there were
a general election to-morrow, I should regard your seat as one of the safest in England."

Both Mr. Low and Lord Chiltern were equally urgent with him to return to his usual mode of
life,--using different arguments for their purpose. Lord Chiltern told him plainly that he
was weak and womanly,--or rather that he would be were he to continue to dread the faces of
his fellow-creatures. The Master of the Brake hounds himself was a man less gifted than Phineas
Finn, and therefore hardly capable of understanding the exaggerated feelings of the man who
had recently been tried for his life. Lord Chiltern was affectionate, tender-hearted, and true;--but
there were no vacillating fibres in his composition. The balance which regulated his conduct
was firmly set, and went well. The clock never stopped, and wanted but little looking after.
But the works were somewhat rough, and the seconds were not scored. He had, however, been quite
true to Phineas during the dark time, and might now say what he pleased. "I am womanly," said
Phineas. "I begin to feel it. But I can't alter my nature."

"I never was so much surprised in my life," said Lord Chiltern. "When I used to look at you
in the dock, by heaven I envied you your pluck and strength."

"I was burning up the stock of coals, Chiltern."

"You'll come all right after a few weeks. You've been knocked out of time;--that's the truth
of it."

Mr. Low treated his patient with more indulgence; but he also was surprised, and hardly understood
the nature of the derangement of the mechanism in the instrument which he was desirous of repairing.
"I should go abroad for a few months if I were you," said Mr. Low.

"I should stick at the first inn I got to," said Phineas. "I think I am better here. By and
bye I shall travel, I dare say,--all over the world, as far as my money will last. But for
the present I am only fit to sit still."

Mrs. Low had seen him more than once, and had been very kind to him; but she also failed to
understand. "I always thought that he was such a manly fellow," she said to her husband.

"If you mean personal courage, there is no doubt that he possesses it,--as completely now,
probably, as ever."

"Oh yes;--he could go over to Flanders and let that lord shoot at him; and he could ride brutes
of horses, and not care about breaking his neck. That's not what I mean. I thought that he
could face the world with dignity;--but now it seems that he breaks down."

"He has been very roughly used, my dear."

"So he has,--and tenderly used too. Nobody has had better friends. I thought he would have
been more manly."

The property of manliness in a man is a great possession, but perhaps there is none that is
less understood,--which is more generally accorded where it does not exist, or more frequently
disallowed where it prevails. There are not many who ever make up their minds as to what constitutes
manliness, or even inquire within themselves upon the subject. The woman's error, occasioned
by her natural desire for a master, leads her to look for a certain outward magnificence of
demeanour, a pretended indifference to stings and little torments, a would-be superiority to
the bread-and-butter side of life, an unreal assumption of personal grandeur. But a robe of
State such as this,--however well the garment may be worn with practice,--can never be the
raiment natural to a man; and men, dressing themselves in women's eyes, have consented to walk
about in buckram. A composure of the eye, which has been studied, a reticence as to the little
things of life, a certain slowness of speech unless the occasion call for passion, an indifference
to small surroundings, these,--joined, of course, with personal bravery,--are supposed to constitute
manliness. That personal bravery is required in the composition of manliness must be conceded,
though, of all the ingredients needed, it is the lowest in value. But the first requirement
of all must be described by a negative. Manliness is not compatible with affectation. Women's
virtues, all feminine attributes, may be marred by affectation, but the virtues and the vice
may co-exist. An affected man, too, may be honest, may be generous, may be pious;--but surely
he cannot be manly. The self-conscious assumption of any outward manner, the striving to add,--even
though it be but a tenth of a cubit to the height,--is fatal, and will at once banish the all
but divine attribute. Before the man can be manly, the gifts which make him so must be there,
collected by him slowly, unconsciously, as are his bones, his flesh, and his blood. They cannot
be put on like a garment for the nonce,--as may a little learning. A man cannot become faithful
to his friends, unsuspicious before the world, gentle with women, loving with children, considerate
to his inferiors, kindly with servants, tender-hearted with all,--and at the same time be frank,
of open speech, with springing eager energies,--simply because he desires it. These things,
which are the attributes of manliness, must come of training on a nature not ignoble. But they
are the very opposites, the antipodes, the direct antagonism, of that staring, posed, bewhiskered
and bewigged deportment, that nil admirari, self-remembering assumption of manliness, that
endeavour of twopence halfpenny to look as high as threepence, which, when you prod it through,
has in it nothing deeper than deportment. We see the two things daily, side by side, close
to each other. Let a man put his hat down, and you shall say whether he has deposited it with
affectation or true nature. The natural man will probably be manly. The affected man cannot be so.

Mrs. Low was wrong when she accused our hero of being unmanly. Had his imagination been less
alert in looking into the minds of men, and in picturing to himself the thoughts of others
in reference to the crime with which he had been charged, he would not now have shrunk from
contact with his fellow-creatures as he did. But he could not pretend to be other than he was.
During the period of his danger, when men had thought that he would be hung,--and when he himself
had believed that it would be so,--he had borne himself bravely without any conscious effort.
When he had confronted the whole Court with that steady courage which had excited Lord Chiltern's
admiration, and had looked the Bench in the face as though he at least had no cause to quail,
he had known nothing of what he was doing. His features had answered the helm from his heart,
but had not been played upon by his intellect. And it was so with him now. The reaction had
overcome him, and he could not bring himself to pretend that it was not so. The tears would
come to his eyes, and he would shiver and shake like one struck by palsy.

Mr. Monk came to him often, and was all but forgiven for the apparent defection in his faith.
"I have made up my mind to one thing," Phineas said to him at the end of the ten days.

"And what is the one thing?"

"I will give up my seat."

"I do not see a shadow of a reason for it."

"Nevertheless I will do it. Indeed, I have already written to Mr. Ratler for the Hundreds.
There may be and probably are men down at Tankerville who still think that I am guilty. There
is an offensiveness in murder which degrades a man even by the accusation. I suppose it wouldn't
do for you to move for the new writ."

"Ratler will do it, as a matter of course. No doubt there will be expressions of great regret,
and my belief is that they will return you again."

"If so, they'll have to do it without my presence."

Mr. Ratler did move for a new writ for the borough of Tankerville, and within a fortnight of
his restoration to liberty Phineas Finn was no longer a Member of Parliament. It cannot be
alleged that there was any reason for what he did, and yet the doing of it for the time rather
increased than diminished his popularity. Both Mr. Gresham and Mr. Daubeny expressed their
regret in the House, and Mr. Monk said a few words respecting his friend, which were very touching.
He ended by expressing a hope that they soon might see him there again, and an opinion that
he was a man peculiarly fitted by the tone of his mind, and the nature of his intellect, for
the duties of Parliament.

Then at last, when all this had been settled, he went to Lord Brentford's house in Portman
Square. He had promised that that should be the first house he would visit, and he was as good
as his word. One evening he crept out, and walked slowly along Oxford Street, and knocked timidly
at the door. As he did so he longed to be told that Lady Laura was not at home. But Lady Laura
was at home,--as a matter of course. In those days she never went into society, and had not
passed an evening away from her father's house since Mr. Kennedy's death. He was shown up into
the drawing-room in which she sat, and there he found her--alone. "Oh, Phineas, I am so glad
you have come."

"I have done as I said, you see."

"I could not go to you when they told me that you were ill. You will have understood all that?"

"Yes; I understand."

"People are so hard, and cold, and stiff, and cruel, that one can never do what one feels,
oneself, to be right. So you have given up your seat."

"Yes,--I am no longer a Member of Parliament."

"Barrington says that they will certainly re-elect you."

"We shall see. You may be sure at any rate of this,--that I shall never ask them to do so.
Things seem to be so different now from what they did. I don't care for the seat. It all seems
to be a bore and a trouble. What does it matter who sits in Parliament? The fight goes on just
the same. The same falsehoods are acted. The same mock truths are spoken. The same wrong reasons
are given. The same personal motives are at work."

"And yet, of all believers in Parliament, you used to be the most faithful."

"One has time to think of things, Lady Laura, when one lies in Newgate. It seems to me to be
an eternity of time since they locked me up. And as for that trial, which they tell me lasted
a week, I look back at it till the beginning is so distant that I can hardly remember it. But
I have resolved that I will never talk of it again. Lady Chiltern is out probably."

"Yes;--she and Oswald are dining with the Baldocks."

"She is well?"

"Yes;--and most anxious to see you. Will you go to their place in September?"

He had almost made up his mind that if he went anywhere in September he would go to Matching
Priory, accepting the offer of the Duchess of Omnium; but he did not dare to say so to Lady
Laura, because she would have known that Madame Goesler also would be there. And he had not
as yet accepted the invitation, and was still in doubt whether he would not escape by himself
instead of attempting to return into the grooves of society. "I think not;--I am hardly as
yet sufficiently master of myself to know what I shall do."

"They will be much disappointed."

"And you?--what will you do?"

"I shall not go there. I am told that I ought to visit Loughlinter, and I suppose I shall.
Oswald has promised to go down with me before the end of the month, but he will not remain
above a day or two."

"And your father?"

"We shall leave him at Saulsby. I cannot look it all in the face yet. It is not possible that
I should remain all alone in that great house. The people all around would hate and despise
me. I think Violet will come down with me, but of course she cannot remain there. Oswald must
go to Harrington because of the hunting. It has become the business of his life. And she must
go with him."

"You will return to Saulsby."

"I cannot say. They seem to think that I should live at Loughlinter;--but I cannot live there
alone."

He soon took leave of her, and did so with no warmer expressions of regard on either side than
have here been given. Then he crept back to his lodgings, and she sat weeping alone in her
father's house. When he had come to her during her husband's lifetime at Dresden, or even when
she had visited him at his prison, it had been better than this.

CHAPTER LXIX

The Duke's First Cousin

Our pages have lately been taken up almost exclusively with the troubles of Phineas Finn, and
indeed have so far not unfairly represented the feelings and interest of people generally at
the time. Not to have talked of Phineas Finn from the middle of May to the middle of July in
that year would have exhibited great ignorance or a cynical disposition. But other things went
on also. Moons waxed and waned; children were born; marriages were contracted; and the hopes
and fears of the little world around did not come to an end because Phineas Finn was not to
be hung. Among others who had interests of their own there was poor Adelaide Palliser, whom
we last saw under the affliction of Mr. Spooner's love,--but who before that had encountered
the much deeper affliction of a quarrel with her own lover. She had desired him to free her,--and
he had gone. Indeed, as to his going at that moment there had been no alternative, as he considered
himself to have been turned out of Lord Chiltern's house. The red-headed lord, in the fierceness
of his defence of Miss Palliser, had told the lover that under such and such circumstances
he could not be allowed to remain at Harrington Hall. Lord Chiltern had said something about
"his roof." Now, when a host questions the propriety of a guest remaining under his roof, the
guest is obliged to go. Gerard Maule had gone; and, having offended his sweetheart by a most
impolite allusion to Boulogne, had been forced to go as a rejected lover. From that day to
this he had done nothing,--not because he was contented with the lot assigned to him, for every
morning, as he lay on his bed, which he usually did till twelve, he swore to himself that nothing
should separate him from Adelaide Palliser,--but simply because to do nothing was customary
with him. "What is a man to do?" he not unnaturally asked his friend Captain Boodle at the
club. "Let her out on the grass for a couple of months," said Captain Boodle, "and she'll come
up as clean as a whistle. When they get these humours there's nothing like giving them a run."
Captain Boodle undoubtedly had the reputation of being very great in council on such matters;
but it must not be supposed that Gerard Maule was contented to take his advice implicitly.
He was unhappy, ill at ease, half conscious that he ought to do something, full of regrets,--but
very idle.

In the meantime Miss Palliser, who had the finer nature of the two, suffered grievously. The
Spooner affair was but a small addition to her misfortune. She could get rid of Mr. Spooner,--of
any number of Mr. Spooners; but how should she get back to her the man she loved? When young
ladies quarrel with their lovers it is always presumed, especially in books, that they do not
wish to get them back. It is to be understood that the loss to them is as nothing. Miss Smith
begs that Mr. Jones may be assured that he is not to consider her at all. If he is pleased
to separate, she will be at any rate quite as well pleased,--probably a great deal better.
No doubt she had loved him with all her heart, but that will make no difference to her, if
he wishes,--to be off. Upon the whole Miss Smith thinks that she would prefer such an arrangement,
in spite of her heart. Adelaide Palliser had said something of the kind. As Gerard Maule had
regarded her as a "trouble", and had lamented that prospect of "Boulogne" which marriage had
presented to his eyes, she had dismissed him with a few easily spoken words. She had assured
him that no such troubles need weigh upon him. No doubt they had been engaged;--but, as far
as she was concerned, the remembrance of that need not embarrass him. And so she and Lord Chiltern
between them had sent him away. But how was she to get him back again?

When she came to think it over, she acknowledged to herself that it would be all the world
to her to have him back. To have him at all had been all the world to her. There had been nothing
peculiarly heroic about him, nor had she ever regarded him as a hero. She had known his faults
and weaknesses, and was probably aware that he was inferior to herself in character and intellect.
But, nevertheless, she had loved him. To her he had been, though not heroic, sufficiently a
man to win her heart. He was a gentleman, pleasant-mannered, pleasant to look at, pleasant
to talk to, not educated in the high sense of the word, but never making himself ridiculous
by ignorance. He was the very antipodes of a Spooner, and he was,--or rather had been,--her
lover. She did not wish to change. She did not recognise the possibility of changing. Though
she had told him that he might go if he pleased, to her his going would be the loss of everything.
What would life be without a lover,--without the prospect of marriage? And there could be no
other lover. There could be no further prospect should he take her at her word.

Of all this Lord Chiltern understood nothing, but Lady Chiltern understood it all. To his thinking
the young man had behaved so badly that it was incumbent on them all to send him away and so
have done with him. If the young man wanted to quarrel with any one, there was he to be quarrelled
with. The thing was a trouble, and the sooner they got to the end of it the better. But Lady
Chiltern understood more than that. She could not prevent the quarrel as it came,--or was coming;
but she knew that "the quarrel of lovers is the renewal of love." At any rate, the woman always
desires that it may be so, and endeavours to reconcile the parted ones. "You'll see him in
London," Lady Chiltern had said to her friend.

"I do not want to see him," said Adelaide proudly.

"But he'll want to see you, and then,--after a time,--you'll want to see him. I don't believe
in quarrels, you know."

"It is better that we should part, Lady Chiltern, if marrying will cause him--dismay. I begin
to feel that we are too poor to be married."

"A great deal poorer people than you are married every day. Of course people can't be equally
rich. You'll do very well if you'll only be patient, and not refuse to speak to him when he
comes to you." This was said at Harrington after Lady Chiltern had returned from her first
journey up to London. That visit had been very short, and Miss Palliser had been left alone
at the hall. We already know how Mr. Spooner took advantage of her solitude. After that, Miss
Palliser was to accompany the Chilterns to London, and she was there with them when Phineas
Finn was acquitted. By that time she had brought herself to acknowledge to her friend Lady
Chiltern that it would perhaps be desirable that Mr. Maule should return. If he did not do
so, and that at once, there must come an end to her life in England. She must go away to Italy,--altogether
beyond the reach of Gerard Maule. In such case all the world would have collapsed for her,
and she would become the martyr of a shipwreck. And yet the more that she confessed to herself
that she loved the man so well that she could not part with him, the more angry she was with
him for having told her that, when married, they must live at Boulogne.

The house in Portman Square had been practically given up by Lord Brentford to his son; but
nevertheless the old Earl and Lady Laura had returned to it when they reached England from
Dresden. It was, however, large, and now the two families,--if the Earl and his daughter can
be called a family,--were lodging there together. The Earl troubled them but little, living
mostly in his own rooms, and Lady Laura never went out with them. But there was something in
the presence of the old man and the widow which prevented the house from being gay as it might
have been. There were no parties in Portman Square. Now and then a few old friends dined there;
but at the present moment Gerard Maule could not be admitted as an old friend. When Adelaide
had been a fortnight in London she had not as yet seen Gerard Maule or heard a word from him.
She had been to balls and concerts, to dinner parties and the play; but no one had as yet brought
them together. She did know that he was in town. She was able to obtain so much information
of him as that. But he never came to Portman Square, and had evidently concluded that the quarrel--was
to be a quarrel.

Among other balls in London that July there had been one at the Duchess of Omnium's. This had
been given after the acquittal of Phineas Finn, though fixed before that great era. "Nothing
on earth should have made me have it while he was in prison," the Duchess had said. But Phineas
was acquitted, and cakes and ale again became permissible. The ball had been given, and had
been very grand. Phineas had been asked, but of course had not gone. Madame Goesler, who was
a great heroine since her successful return from Prague, had shown herself there for a few
minutes. Lady Chiltern had gone, and of course taken Adelaide. "We are first cousins," the
Duke said to Miss Palliser,--for the Duke did steal a moment from his work in which to walk
through his wife's drawing-room. Adelaide smiled and nodded, and looked pleased as she gave
her hand to her great relative. "I hope we shall see more of each other than we have done,"
said the Duke. "We have all been sadly divided, haven't we?" Then he said a word to his wife,
expressing his opinion that Adelaide Palliser was a nice girl, and asking her to be civil to
so near a relative.

The Duchess had heard all about Gerard Maule and the engagement. She always did hear all about
everything. And on this evening she asked a question or two from Lady Chiltern. "Do you know,"
she said, "I have an appointment to-morrow with your husband?"

"I did not know;--but I won't interfere to prevent it, now you are generous enough to tell me."

"I wish you would, because I don't know what to say to him. He is to come about that horrid
wood, where the foxes won't get themselves born and bred as foxes ought to do. How can I help
it? I'd send down a whole Lying-in Hospital for the foxes if I thought that that would do any
good."

"Lord Chiltern thinks it's the shooting."

"But where is a person to shoot if he mayn't shoot in his own woods? Not that the Duke cares
about the shooting for himself. He could not hit a pheasant sitting on a haystack, and wouldn't
know one if he saw it. And he'd rather that there wasn't such a thing as a pheasant in the
world. He cares for nothing but farthings. But what is a man to do? Or, rather, what is a woman
to do?--for he tells me that I must settle it."

"Lord Chiltern says that Mr. Fothergill has the foxes destroyed. I suppose Mr. Fothergill may
do as he pleases if the Duke gives him permission."

"I hate Mr. Fothergill, if that'll do any good," said the Duchess; "and we wish we could get
rid of him altogether. But that, you know, is impossible. When one has an old man on one's
shoulders one never can get rid of him. He is my incubus; and then you see Trumpeton Wood is
such a long way from us at Matching that I can't say I want the shooting for myself. And I
never go to Gatherum if I can help it. Suppose we made out that the Duke wanted to let the
shooting?"

"Lord Chiltern would take it at once."

"But the Duke wouldn't really let it, you know. I'll lay awake at night and think about it.
And now tell me about Adelaide Palliser. Is she to be married?"

"I hope so,--sooner or later."

"There's a quarrel or something;--isn't there? She's the Duke's first cousin, and we should
be so sorry that things shouldn't go pleasantly with her. And she's a very good-looking girl,
too. Would she like to come down to Matching?"

"She has some idea of going back to Italy."

"And leaving her lover behind her! Oh, dear, that will be very bad. She'd much better come
to Matching, and then I'd ask the man to come too. Mr. Maud, isn't he?"

"Gerard Maule."

"Ah, yes; Maule. If it's the kind of thing that ought to be, I'd manage it in a week. If you
get a young man down into a country house, and there has been anything at all between them,
I don't see how he is to escape. Isn't there some trouble about money?"

"They wouldn't be very rich, Duchess."

"What a blessing for them! But then, perhaps, they'd be very poor."

"They would be rather poor."

"Which is not a blessing. Isn't there some proverb about going safely in the middle? I'm sure
it's true about money,--only perhaps you ought to be put a little beyond the middle. I don't
know why Plantagenet shouldn't do something for her."

As to this conversation Lady Chiltern said very little to Adelaide, but she did mention the
proposed visit to Matching.

"The Duchess said nothing to me," replied Adelaide, proudly.

"No; I don't suppose she had time. And then she is so very odd; sometimes taking no notice
of one, and at others so very loving."

"I hate that."

"But with her it is neither impudence nor affectation. She says exactly what she thinks at
the time, and she is always as good as her word. There are worse women than the Duchess."

"I am sure I wouldn't like going to Matching," said Adelaide.

Lady Chiltern was right in saying that the Duchess of Omnium was always as good as her word.
On the next day, after that interview with Lord Chiltern about Mr. Fothergill and the foxes,--as
to which no present further allusion need be made here,--she went to work and did learn a good
deal about Gerard Maule and Miss Palliser. Something she learned from Lord Chiltern,--without
any consciousness on his lordship's part, something from Madame Goesler, and something from
the Baldock people. Before she went to bed on the second night she knew all about the quarrel,
and all about the money. "Plantagenet," she said the next morning, "what are you going to do
about the Duke's legacy to Marie Goesler?"

"I can do nothing. She must take the things, of course."

"She won't."

"Then the jewels must remain packed up. I suppose they'll be sold at last for the legacy duty,
and, when that's paid, the balance will belong to her."

"But what about the money?"

"Of course it belongs to her."

"Couldn't you give it to that girl who was here last night?"

"Give it to a girl!"

"Yes;--to your cousin. She's as poor as Job, and can't get married because she hasn't got any
money. It's quite true; and I must say that if the Duke had looked after his own relations
instead of leaving money to people who don't want it and won't have it, it would have been
much better. Why shouldn't Adelaide Palliser have it?"

"How on earth should I give Adelaide Palliser what doesn't belong to me? If you choose to make
her a present, you can, but such a sum as that would, I should say, be out of the question."

The Duchess had achieved quite as much as she had anticipated. She knew her husband well, and
was aware that she couldn't carry her point at once. To her mind it was "all nonsense" his
saying that the money was not his. If Madame Goesler wouldn't take it, it must be his; and
nobody could make a woman take money if she did not choose. Adelaide Palliser was the Duke's
first cousin, and it was intolerable that the Duke's first cousin should be unable to marry
because she would have nothing to live upon. It became, at least, intolerable as soon as the
Duchess had taken it into her head to like the first cousin. No doubt there were other first
cousins as badly off, or perhaps worse, as to whom the Duchess would care nothing whether they
were rich or poor,--married or single; but then they were first cousins who had not had the
advantage of interesting the Duchess.

"My dear," said the Duchess to her friend, Madame Goesler, "you know all about those Maules?"

"What makes you ask?"

"But you do?"

"I know something about one of them," said Madame Goesler. Now, as it happened, Mr. Maule,
senior, had on that very day asked Madame Goesler to share her lot with his, and the request
had been--almost indignantly, refused. The general theory that the wooing of widows should
be quick had, perhaps, misled Mr. Maule. Perhaps he did not think that the wooing had been
quick. He had visited Park Lane with the object of making his little proposition once before,
and had then been stopped in his course by the consternation occasioned by the arrest of Phineas
Finn. He had waited till Phineas had been acquitted, and had then resolved to try his luck.
He had heard of the lady's journey to Prague, and was acquainted of course with those rumours
which too freely connected the name of our hero with that of the lady. But rumours are often
false, and a lady may go to Prague on a gentleman's behalf without intending to marry him.
All the women in London were at present more or less in love with the man who had been accused
of murder, and the fantasy of Madame Goesler might be only as the fantasy of others. And then,
rumour also said that Phineas Finn intended to marry Lady Laura Kennedy. At any rate a man
cannot have his head broken for asking a lady to marry him,--unless he is very awkward in the
doing of it. So Mr. Maule made his little proposition.

"Mr. Maule," said Madame, smiling, "is not this rather sudden?" Mr. Maule admitted that it
was sudden, but still persisted. "I think, if you please, Mr. Maule, we will say no more about
it," said the lady, with that wicked smile still on her face. Mr. Maule declared that silence
on the subject had become impossible to him. "Then, Mr. Maule, I shall have to leave you to
speak to the chairs and tables," said Madame Goesler. No doubt she was used to the thing, and
knew how to conduct herself well. He also had been refused before by ladies of wealth, but
had never been treated with so little consideration. She had risen from her chair as though
about to leave the room, but was slow in her movement, showing him that she thought it was
well for him to leave it instead of her. Muttering some words, half of apology and half of
self-assertion, he did leave the room; and now she told the Duchess that she knew something
of one of the Maules.

"That is, the father?"

"Yes,--the father."

"He is one of your tribe, I know. We met him at your house just before the murder. I don't
much admire your taste, my dear, because he's a hundred and fifty years old;--and what there
is of him comes chiefly from the tailor."

"He's as good as any other old man."

"I dare say,--and I hope Mr. Finn will like his society. But he has got a son."

"So he tells me."

"Who is a charming young man."

"He never told me that, Duchess."

"I dare say not. Men of that sort are always jealous of their sons. But he has. Now I am going
to tell you something and ask you to do something."

"What was it the French Minister said. If it is simply difficult it is done. If it is impossible,
it shall be done."

"The easiest thing in the world. You saw Plantagenet's first cousin the other night,--Adelaide
Palliser. She is engaged to marry young Mr. Maule, and they neither of them have a shilling
in the world. I want you to give them five-and-twenty thousand pounds."

"Wouldn't that be peculiar?"

"Not in the least."

"At any rate it would be inconvenient."

"No it wouldn't, my dear. It would be the most convenient thing in the world. Of course I don't
mean out of your pocket. There's the Duke's legacy."

"It isn't mine, and never will be."

"But Plantagenet says it never can be anybody else's. If I can get him to agree, will you?
Of course there will be ever so many papers to be signed; and the biggest of all robbers, the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, will put his fingers into the pudding and pull out a plum, and
the lawyers will take more plums. But that will be nothing to us. The pudding will be very
nice for them let ever so many plums be taken. The lawyers and people will do it all, and then
it will be her fortune,--just as though her uncle had left it to her. As it is now, the money
will never be of any use to anybody." Madame Goesler said that if the Duke consented she also
would consent. It was immaterial to her who had the money. If by signing any receipt she could
facilitate the return of the money to any one of the Duke's family, she would willingly sign
it. But Miss Palliser must be made to understand that the money did not come to her as a present
from Madame Goesler.

"But it will be a present from Madame Goesler," said the Duke.

"Plantagenet, if you go and upset everything by saying that, I shall think it most ill-natured.
Bother about true! Somebody must have the money. There's nothing illegal about it." And the
Duchess had her own way. Lawyers were consulted, and documents were prepared, and the whole
thing was arranged. Only Adelaide Palliser knew nothing about it, nor did Gerard Maule; and
the quarrels of lovers had not yet become the renewal of love. Then the Duchess wrote the two
following notes:--

   MY DEAR ADELAIDE,

   We shall hope to see you at Matching on the 15th of
   August. The Duke, as head of the family, expects implicit
   obedience. You'll meet fifteen young gentlemen from the
   Treasury and the Board of Trade, but they won't incommode
   you, as they are kept at work all day. We hope Mr. Finn
   will be with us, and there isn't a lady in England who
   wouldn't give her eyes to meet him. We shall stay ever so
   many weeks at Matching, so that you can do as you please
   as to the time of leaving us.

   Yours affectionately,

   G. O.

   Tell Lord Chiltern that I have my hopes of making
   Trumpeton Wood too hot for Mr. Fothergill,--but I have
   to act with the greatest caution. In the meantime I am
   sending down dozens of young foxes, all labelled Trumpeton
   Wood, so that he shall know them.

The other was a card rather than a note. The Duke and Duchess of Omnium presented their compliments
to Mr. Gerard Maule, and requested the honour of his company to dinner on,--a certain day named.
When Gerard Maule received this card at his club he was rather surprised, as he had never made
the acquaintance either of the Duke or the Duchess. But the Duke was the first cousin of Adelaide
Palliser, and of course he accepted the invitation.

CHAPTER LXX

"I will not go to Loughlinter"

The end of July came, and it was settled that Lady Laura Kennedy should go to Loughlinter.
She had been a widow now for nearly three months, and it was thought right that she should
go down and see the house, and the lands, and the dependents whom her husband had left in her
charge. It was now three years since she had seen Loughlinter, and when last she had left it,
she had made up her mind that she would never place her foot upon the place again. Her wretchedness
had all come upon her there. It was there that she had first been subjected to the unendurable
tedium of Sabbath Day observances. It was there she had been instructed in the unpalatable
duties that had been expected from her. It was there that she had been punished with the doctor
from Callender whenever she attempted escape under the plea of a headache. And it was there,
standing by the waterfall, the noise of which could be heard from the front-door, that Phineas
Finn had told her of his love. When she accepted the hand of Robert Kennedy she had known that
she had not loved him; but from the moment in which Phineas had spoken to her, she knew well
that her heart had gone one way, whereas her hand was to go another. From that moment her whole
life had quickly become a blank. She had had no period of married happiness,--not a month,
not an hour. From the moment in which the thing had been done she had found that the man to
whom she had bound herself was odious to her, and that the life before her was distasteful
to her. Things which before had seemed worthy to her, and full at any rate of interest, became
at once dull and vapid. Her husband was in Parliament, as also had been her father, and many
of her friends,--and, by weight of his own character and her influence, was himself placed
high in office; but in his house politics lost all the flavour which they had possessed for
her in Portman Square. She had thought that she could at any rate do her duty as the mistress
of a great household, and as the benevolent lady of a great estate; but household duties under
the tutelage of Mr. Kennedy had been impossible to her, and that part of a Scotch Lady Bountiful
which she had intended to play seemed to be denied to her. The whole structure had fallen to
the ground, and nothing had been left to her.

But she would not sin. Though she could not bring herself to love her husband, she would at
any rate be strong enough to get rid of that other love. Having so resolved, she became as
weak as water. She at one time determined to be the guiding genius of the man she loved,--a
sort of devoted elder sister, intending him to be the intimate friend of her husband; then
she had told him not to come to her house, and had been weak enough to let him know why it
was that she could not bear his presence. She had failed altogether to keep her secret, and
her life during the struggle had become so intolerable to her that she had found herself compelled
to desert her husband. He had shown her that he, too, had discovered the truth, and then she
had become indignant, and had left him. Every place that she had inhabited with him had become
disagreeable to her. The house in London had been so odious, that she had asked her intimate
friends to come to her in that occupied by her father. But, of all spots upon earth, Loughlinter
had been the most distasteful to her. It was there that the sermons had been the longest, the
lessons in accounts the most obstinate, the lectures the most persevering, the dullness the
most heavy. It was there that her ears had learned the sound of the wheels of Dr. Macnuthrie's
gig. It was there that her spirit had been nearly broken. It was there that, with spirit not
broken, she had determined to face all that the world might say of her, and fly from a tyranny
which was insupportable. And now the place was her own, and she was told that she must go there
as its owner;--go there and be potential, and beneficent, and grandly bland with persons, all
of whom knew what had been the relations between her and her husband.

And though she had been indignant with her husband when at last she had left him,--throwing
it in his teeth as an unmanly offence that he had accused her of the truth; though she had
felt him to be a tyrant and herself to be a thrall; though the sermons, and the lessons, and
the doctor had each, severally, seemed to her to be horrible cruelties; yet she had known through
it all that the fault had been hers, and not his. He only did that which she should have expected
when she married him;--but she had done none of that which he was entitled to expect from her.
The real fault, the deceit, the fraud,--the sin had been with her,--and she knew it. Her life
had been destroyed,--but not by him. His life had also been destroyed, and she had done it.
Now he was gone, and she knew that his people,--the old mother who was still left alone, his
cousins, and the tenants who were now to be her tenants, all said that had she done her duty
by him he would still have been alive. And they must hate her the worse, because she had never
sinned after such a fashion as to liberate him from his bond to her. With a husband's perfect
faith in his wife, he had, immediately after his marriage, given to her for her life the lordship
over his people, should he be without a child and should she survive him. In his hottest anger
he had not altered that. His constant demand had been that she should come back to him, and
be his real wife. And while making that demand,--with a persistency which had driven him mad,--he
had died; and now the place was hers, and they told her that she must go and live there!

It is a very sad thing for any human being to have to say to himself,--with an earnest belief
in his own assertion,--that all the joy of this world is over for him; and is the sadder because
such conviction is apt to exclude the hope of other joy. This woman had said so to herself
very often during the last two years, and had certainly been sincere. What was there in store
for her? She was banished from the society of all those she liked. She bore a name that was
hateful to her. She loved a man whom she could never see. She was troubled about money. Nothing
in life had any taste for her. All the joys of the world were over,--and had been lost by her
own fault. Then Phineas Finn had come to her at Dresden, and now her husband was dead!

Could it be that she was entitled to hope that the sun might rise again for her once more and
another day be reopened for her with a gorgeous morning? She was now rich and still young,--or
young enough. She was two and thirty, and had known many women,--women still honoured with
the name of girls,--who had commenced the world successfully at that age. And this man had
loved her once. He had told her so, and had afterwards kissed her when informed of her own
engagement. How well she remembered it all. He, too, had gone through vicissitudes in life,
had married and retired out of the world, had returned to it, and had gone through fire and
water. But now everybody was saying good things of him, and all he wanted was the splendour
which wealth would give him. Why should he not take it at her hands, and why should not the
world begin again for both of them?

But though she would dream that it might be so, she was quite sure that there was no such life
in store for her. The nature of the man was too well known to her. Fickle he might be;--or
rather capable of change than fickle; but he was incapable of pretending to love when he did
not love. She felt that in all the moments in which he had been most tender with her. When
she had endeavoured to explain to him the state of her feelings at Königstein,--meaning to
be true in what she said, but not having been even then true throughout,--she had acknowledged
to herself that at every word he spoke she was wounded by his coldness. Had he then professed
a passion for her she would have rebuked him, and told him that he must go from her,--but it
would have warmed the blood in all her veins, and brought back to her a sense of youthful life.
It had been the same when she visited him in the prison;--the same again when he came to her
after his acquittal. She had been frank enough to him, but he would not even pretend that he
loved her. His gratitude, his friendship, his services, were all hers. In every respect he
had behaved well to her. All his troubles had come upon him because he would not desert her
cause,--but he would never again say he loved her.

She gazed at herself in the glass, putting aside for the moment the hideous widow's cap which
she now wore, and told herself that it was natural that it should be so. Though she was young
in years her features were hard and worn with care. She had never thought herself to be a beauty,
though she had been conscious of a certain aristocratic grace of manner which might stand in
the place of beauty. As she examined herself she found that that was not all gone;--but she
now lacked that roundness of youth which had been hers when first she knew Phineas Finn. She
sat opposite the mirror, and pored over her own features with an almost skilful scrutiny, and
told herself at last aloud that she had become an old woman. He was in the prime of life; but
for her was left nothing but its dregs.

She was to go to Loughlinter with her brother and her brother's wife, leaving her father at
Saulsby on the way. The Chilterns were to remain with her for one week, and no more. His presence
was demanded in the Brake country, and it was with difficulty that he had been induced to give
her so much of his time. But what was she to do when they should leave her? How could she live
alone in that great house, thinking, as she ever must think, of all that had happened to her
there? It seemed to her that everybody near to her was cruel in demanding from her such a sacrifice
of her comfort. Her father had shuddered when she had proposed to him to accompany her to Loughlinter;
but her father was one of those who insisted on the propriety of her going there. Then, in
spite of that lesson which she had taught herself while sitting opposite to the glass, she
allowed her fancy to revel in the idea of having him with her as she wandered over the braes.
She saw him a day or two before her journey, when she told him her plans as she might tell
them to any friend. Lady Chiltern and her father had been present, and there had been no special
sign in her outward manner of the mingled tenderness and soreness of her heart within. No allusion
had been made to any visit from him to the North. She would not have dared to suggest it in
the presence of her brother, and was almost as much cowed by her brother's wife. But when she
was alone, on the eve of her departure, she wrote to him as follows:--

   Sunday, 1st August, ----

   DEAR FRIEND,

   I thought that perhaps you might have come in this
   afternoon, and I have not left the house all day. I was
   so wretched that I could not go to church in the morning;
   --and when the afternoon came, I preferred the chance of
   seeing you to going out with Violet. We two were alone all
   the evening, and I did not give you up till nearly ten. I
   dare say you were right not to come. I should only have
   bored you with my complaints, and have grumbled to you of
   evils which you cannot cure.

   We start at nine to-morrow, and get to Saulsby in the
   afternoon. Such a family party as we shall be! I did fancy
   that Oswald would escape it; but, like everybody else, he
   has changed,--and has become domestic and dutiful. Not but
   that he is as tyrannous as ever; but his tyranny is now
   that of the responsible father of a family. Papa cannot
   understand him at all, and is dreadfully afraid of him. We
   stay two nights at Saulsby, and then go on to Scotland,
   leaving papa at home.

   Of course it is very good in Violet and Oswald to come
   with me,--if, as they say, it be necessary for me to go at
   all. As to living there by myself, it seems to me to be
   impossible. You know the place well, and can you imagine
   me there all alone, surrounded by Scotch men and women,
   who, of course, must hate and despise me, afraid of every
   face that I see, and reminded even by the chairs and
   tables of all that is past? I have told papa that I know I
   shall be back at Saulsby before the middle of the month.
   He frets, and says nothing; but he tells Violet, and then
   she lectures me in that wise way of hers which enables her
   to say such hard things with so much seeming tenderness.
   She asks me why I do not take a companion with me, as I am
   so much afraid of solitude. Where on earth should I find a
   companion who would not be worse than solitude? I do feel
   now that I have mistaken life in having so little used
   myself to the small resources of feminine companionship. I
   love Violet dearly, and I used to be always happy in her
   society. But even with her now I feel but a half sympathy.
   That girl that she has with her is more to her than I am,
   because after the first half-hour I grow tired about her
   babies. I have never known any other woman with whom I
   cared to be alone. How then shall I content myself with a
   companion, hired by the quarter, perhaps from some
   advertisement in a newspaper?

   No companionship of any kind seems possible to me,--and
   yet never was a human being more weary of herself. I
   sometimes wonder whether I could go again and sit in
   that cage in the House of Commons to hear you and other
   men speak,--as I used to do. I do not believe that any
   eloquence in the world would make it endurable to me. I
   hardly care who is in or out, and do not understand the
   things which my cousin Barrington tells me,--so long does
   it seem since I was in the midst of them all. Not but that
   I am intensely anxious that you should be back. They tell
   me that you will certainly be re-elected this week, and
   that all the House will receive you with open arms. I
   should have liked, had it been possible, to be once more
   in the cage to see that. But I am such a coward that I did
   not even dare to propose to stay for it. Violet would have
   told me that such manifestation of interest was unfit for
   my condition as a widow. But in truth, Phineas, there is
   nothing else now that does interest me. If, looking on
   from a distance, I can see you succeed, I shall try once
   more to care for the questions of the day. When you have
   succeeded, as I know you will, it will be some consolation
   to me to think that I also helped a little.

   I suppose I must not ask you to come to Loughlinter? But
   you will know best. If you will do so I shall care nothing
   for what any one may say. Oswald hardly mentions your
   name in my hearing, and of course I know of what he is
   thinking. When I am with him I am afraid of him, because
   it would add infinitely to my grief were I driven to
   quarrel with him; but I am my own mistress as much as he
   is his own master, and I will not regulate my conduct by
   his wishes. If you please to come you will be welcome as
   the flowers in May. Ah, how weak are such words in giving
   any idea of the joy with which I should see you!

   God bless you, Phineas.

   Your most affectionate friend,

   LAURA KENNEDY.

   Write to me at Loughlinter. I shall long to hear that you
   have taken your seat immediately on your re-election. Pray
   do not lose a day. I am sure that all your friends will
   advise you as I do.

Throughout her whole letter she was struggling to tell him once again of her love, and yet
to do it in some way of which she need not be ashamed. It was not till she had come to the
last words that she could force her pen to speak of her affection, and then the words did not
come freely as she would have had them. She knew that he would not come to Loughlinter. She
felt that were he to do so he could come only as a suitor for her hand, and that such a suit,
in these early days of her widowhood, carried on in her late husband's house, would be held
to be disgraceful. As regarded herself, she would have faced all that for the sake of the thing
to be attained. But she knew that he would not come. He had become wise by experience, and
would perceive the result of such coming,--and would avoid it. His answer to her letter reached
Loughlinter before she did:--

   Great Marlborough Street,
   Monday night.

   DEAR LADY LAURA,--

   I should have called in the Square last night, only that
   I feel that Lady Chiltern must be weary of the woes of so
   doleful a person as myself. I dined and spent the evening
   with the Lows, and was quite aware that I disgraced myself
   with them by being perpetually lachrymose. As a rule I do
   not think that I am more given than other people to talk
   of myself, but I am conscious of a certain incapability of
   getting rid of myself what has grown upon me since those
   weary weeks in Newgate and those frightful days in the
   dock; and this makes me unfit for society. Should I again
   have a seat in the House I shall be afraid to get up upon
   my legs, lest I should find myself talking of the time
   in which I stood before the judge with a halter round my
   neck.

   I sympathise with you perfectly in what you say about
   Loughlinter. It may be right that you should go there and
   show yourself,--so that those who knew the Kennedys in
   Scotland should not say that you had not dared to visit
   the place, but I do not think it possible that you should
   live there as yet. And why should you do so? I cannot
   conceive that your presence there should do good, unless
   you took delight in the place.

   I will not go to Loughlinter myself, although I know how
   warm would be my welcome.

When he had got so far with his letter he found the difficulty of going on with it to be almost
insuperable. How could he give her any reasons for his not making the journey to Scotland?
"People would say that you and I should not be alone together after all the evil that has been
spoken of us;--and would be specially eager in saying so were I now to visit you, so lately
made a widow, and to sojourn with you in the house that did belong to your husband. Only think
how eloquent would be the indignation of The People's Banner were it known that I was at Loughlinter."
Could he have spoken the truth openly, such were the reasons that he would have given; but
it was impossible that such truths should be written by him in a letter to herself. And then
it was almost equally difficult for him to tell her of a visit which he had resolved to make.
But the letter must be completed, and at last the words were written.

   I could be of no real service to you there, as will be
   your brother and your brother's wife, even though their
   stay with you is to be so short. Were I you I would go
   out among the people as much as possible, even though
   they should not receive you cordially at first. Though
   we hear so much of clanship in the Highlands, I think
   the Highlanders are prone to cling to any one who has
   territorial authority among them. They thought a great
   deal of Mr. Kennedy, but they had never heard his name
   fifty years ago. I suppose you will return to Saulsby
   soon, and then, perhaps, I may be able to see you.

   In the meantime I am going to Matching. [This difficulty
   was worse even than the other.] Both the Duke and Duchess
   have asked me, and I know that I am bound to make an
   effort to face my fellow-creatures again. The horror I
   feel at being stared at, as the man that was not hung as a
   murderer, is stronger than I can describe; and I am well
   aware that I shall be talked to and made a wonder of
   on that ground. I am told that I am to be re-elected
   triumphantly at Tankerville without a penny of cost
   or the trouble of asking for a vote, simply because I
   didn't knock poor Mr. Bonteen on the head. This to me is
   abominable, but I cannot help myself, unless I resolve to
   go away and hide myself. That I know cannot be right, and
   therefore I had better go through it and have done with
   it. Though I am to be stared at, I shall not be stared at
   very long. Some other monster will come up and take my
   place, and I shall be the only person who will not forget
   it all. Therefore I have accepted the Duke's invitation,
   and shall go to Matching some time in the end of August.
   All the world is to be there.

   This re-election,--and I believe I shall be re-elected
   to-morrow,--would be altogether distasteful to me were it
   not that I feel that I should not allow myself to be cut
   to pieces by what has occurred. I shall hate to go back
   to the House, and have somehow learned to dislike and
   distrust all those things that used to be so fine and
   lively to me. I don't think that I believe any more in the
   party;--or rather in the men who lead it. I used to have a
   faith that now seems to me to be marvellous. Even twelve
   months ago, when I was beginning to think of standing for
   Tankerville, I believed that on our side the men were
   patriotic angels, and that Daubeny and his friends were
   all fiends or idiots,--mostly idiots, but with a strong
   dash of fiendism to control them. It has all come now to
   one common level of poor human interests. I doubt whether
   patriotism can stand the wear and tear and temptation of
   the front benches in the House of Commons. Men are flying
   at each other's throats, thrusting and parrying, making
   false accusations and defences equally false, lying and
   slandering,--sometimes picking and stealing,--till they
   themselves become unaware of the magnificence of their own
   position, and forget that they are expected to be great.
   Little tricks of sword-play engage all their skill. And
   the consequence is that there is no reverence now for any
   man in the House,--none of that feeling which we used to
   entertain for Mr. Mildmay.

   Of course I write--and feel--as a discontented man; and
   what I say to you I would not say to any other human
   being. I did long most anxiously for office, having made
   up my mind a second time to look to it as a profession.
   But I meant to earn my bread honestly, and give it up,
   --as I did before, when I could not keep it with a clear
   conscience. I knew that I was hustled out of the object
   of my poor ambition by that unfortunate man who has
   been hurried to his fate. In such a position I ought to
   distrust, and do, partly, distrust my own feelings. And I
   am aware that I have been soured by prison indignities.
   But still the conviction remains with me that
   parliamentary interests are not those battles of gods
   and giants which I used to regard them. Our Gyas with
   the hundred hands is but a Three-fingered Jack, and I
   sometimes think that we share our great Jove with the
   Strand Theatre. Nevertheless I shall go back,--and if they
   will make me a joint lord to-morrow I shall be in heaven!

   I do not know why I should write all this to you except
   that there is no one else to whom I can say it. There
   is no one else who would give a moment of time to such
   lamentations. My friends will expect me to talk to them of
   my experiences in the dock rather than politics, and will
   want to know what rations I had in Newgate. I went to call
   on the Governor only yesterday, and visited the old room.
   "I never could really bring myself to think that you did
   it, Mr. Finn," he said. I looked at him and smiled, but
   I should have liked to fly at his throat. Why did he not
   know that the charge was a monstrous absurdity? Talking
   of that, not even you were truer to me than your brother.
   One expects it from a woman;--both the truth and the
   discernment.

   I have written to you a cruelly long letter; but when
   one's mind is full such relief is sometimes better than
   talking. Pray answer it before long, and let me know what
   you intend to do.

   Yours most affectionately,

   PHINEAS FINN.

She did read the letter through,--read it probably more than once; but there was only one sentence
in it that had for her any enduring interest. "I will not go to Loughlinter myself." Though
she had known that he would not come her heart sank within her, as though now, at this moment,
the really fatal wound had at last been inflicted. But, in truth, there was another sentence
as a complement to the first, which rivetted the dagger in her bosom. "In the meantime I am
going to Matching." Throughout his letter the name of that woman was not mentioned, but of
course she would be there. The thing had all been arranged in order that they two might be
brought together. She told herself that she had always hated that intriguing woman, Lady Glencora.
She read the remainder of the letter and understood it; but she read it all in connection with
the beauty, and the wealth, and the art,--and the cunning of Madame Max Goesler.

CHAPTER LXXI

Phineas Finn is Re-elected

The manner in which Phineas Finn was returned a second time for the borough of Tankerville
was memorable among the annals of English elections. When the news reached the town that their
member was to be tried for murder no doubt every elector believed that he was guilty. It is
the natural assumption when the police and magistrates and lawyers, who have been at work upon
the matter carefully, have come to that conclusion, and nothing but private knowledge or personal
affection will stand against such evidence. At Tankerville there was nothing of either, and
our hero's guilt was taken as a certainty. There was an interest felt in the whole matter which
was full of excitement, and not altogether without delight to the Tankervillians. Of course
the borough, as a borough, would never again hold up its head. There had never been known such
an occurrence in the whole history of this country as the hanging of a member of the House
of Commons. And this Member of Parliament was to be hung for murdering another member, which,
no doubt, added much to the importance of the transaction. A large party in the borough declared
that it was a judgment. Tankerville had degraded itself among boroughs by sending a Roman Catholic
to Parliament, and had done so at the very moment in which the Church of England was being
brought into danger. This was what had come upon the borough by not sticking to honest Mr.
Browborough! There was a moment,--just before the trial was begun,--in which a large proportion
of the electors was desirous of proceeding to work at once, and of sending Mr. Browborough
back to his own place. It was thought that Phineas Finn should be made to resign. And very
wise men in Tankerville were much surprised when they were told that a member of Parliament
cannot resign his seat,--that when once returned he is supposed to be, as long as that Parliament
shall endure, the absolute slave of his constituency and his country, and that he can escape
from his servitude only by accepting some office under the Crown. Now it was held to be impossible
that a man charged with murder should be appointed even to the stewardship of the Chiltern
Hundreds. The House, no doubt, could expel a member, and would, as a matter of course, expel
the member for Tankerville,--but the House could hardly proceed to expulsion before the member's
guilt could have been absolutely established. So it came to pass that there was no escape for
the borough from any part of the disgrace to which it had subjected itself by its unworthy
choice, and some Tankervillians of sensitive minds were of opinion that no Tankervillian ever
again ought to take part in politics.

Then, quite suddenly, there came into the borough the tidings that Phineas Finn was an innocent
man. This happened on the morning on which the three telegrams from Prague reached London.
The news conveyed by the telegrams was at Tankerville almost as soon as in the Court at the
Old Bailey, and was believed as readily. The name of the lady who had travelled all the way
to Bohemia on behalf of their handsome young member was on the tongue of every woman in Tankerville,
and a most delightful romance was composed. Some few Protestant spirits regretted the now assured
escape of their Roman Catholic enemy, and would not even yet allow themselves to doubt that
the whole murder had been arranged by Divine Providence to bring down the scarlet woman. It
seemed to them to be so fitting a thing that Providence should interfere directly to punish
a town in which the sins of the scarlet woman were not held to be abominable! But the multitude
were soon convinced that their member was innocent; and as it was certain that he had been
in great peril,--as it was known that he was still in durance, and as it was necessary that
the trial should proceed, and that he should still stand at least for another day in the dock,--he
became more than ever a hero. Then came the further delay, and at last the triumphant conclusion
of the trial. When acquitted, Phineas Finn was still member for Tankerville and might have
walked into the House on that very night. Instead of doing so he had at once asked for the
accustomed means of escape from his servitude, and the seat for Tankerville was vacant. The
most loving friends of Mr. Browborough perceived at once that there was not a chance for him.
The borough was all but unanimous in resolving that it would return no one as its member but
the man who had been unjustly accused of murder.

Mr. Ruddles was at once despatched to London with two other political spirits,--so that there
might be a real deputation,--and waited upon Phineas two days after his release from prison.
Ruddles was very anxious to carry his member back with him, assuring Phineas of an entry into
the borough so triumphant that nothing like to it had ever been known at Tankerville. But to
all this Phineas was quite deaf. At first he declined even to be put in nomination. "You can't
escape from it, Mr. Finn, you can't indeed," said Ruddles. "You don't at all understand the
enthusiasm of the borough; does he, Mr. Gadmire?"

"I never knew anything like it in my life before," said Gadmire.

"I believe Mr. Finn would poll two-thirds of the Church party to-morrow," said Mr. Troddles,
a leading dissenter in Tankerville, who on this occasion was the third member of the deputation.

"I needn't sit for the borough unless I please, I suppose," pleaded Phineas.

"Well, no;--at least I don't know," said Ruddles. "It would be throwing us over a good deal,
and I'm sure you are not the gentleman to do that. And then, Mr. Finn, don't you see that though
you have been knocked about a little lately--"

"By George, he has,--most cruel," said Troddles.

"You'll miss the House if you give it up; you will, after a bit, Mr. Finn. You've got to come
round again, Mr. Finn,--if I may be so bold as to say so, and you shouldn't put yourself out
of the way of coming round comfortably."

Phineas knew that there was wisdom in the words of Mr. Ruddles, and consented. Though at this
moment he was low in heart, disgusted with the world, and sick of humanity,--though every joint
in his body was still sore from the rack on which he had been stretched, yet he knew that it
would not be so with him always. As others recovered so would he, and it might be that he would
live to "miss the House," should he now refuse the offer made to him. He accepted the offer,
but he did so with a positive assurance that no consideration should at present take him to
Tankerville.

"We ain't going to charge you, not one penny," said Mr. Gadmire, with enthusiasm.

"I feel all that I owe to the borough," said Phineas, "and to the warm friends there who have
espoused my cause; but I am not in a condition at present, either of mind or body, to put myself
forward anywhere in public. I have suffered a great deal."

"Most cruel!" said Troddles.

"And am quite willing to confess that I am therefore unfit in my present position to serve
the borough."

"We can't admit that," said Gadmire, raising his left hand.

"We mean to have you," said Troddles.

"There isn't a doubt about your re-election, Mr. Finn," said Ruddles.

"I am very grateful, but I cannot be there. I must trust to one of you gentlemen to explain
to the electors that in my present condition I am unable to visit the borough."

Messrs. Ruddles, Gadmire, and Troddles returned to Tankerville, --disappointed no doubt at
not bringing with them him whose company would have made their feet glorious on the pavement
of their native town,--but still with a comparative sense of their own importance in having
seen the great sufferer whose woes forbade that he should be beheld by common eyes. They never
even expressed an idea that he ought to have come, alluding even to their past convictions
as to the futility of hoping for such a blessing; but spoke of him as a personage made almost
sacred by the sufferings which he had been made to endure. As to the election, that would be
a matter of course. He was proposed by Mr. Ruddles himself, and was absolutely seconded by
the rector of Tankerville,--the staunchest Tory in the place, who on this occasion made a speech
in which he declared that as an Englishman, loving justice, he could not allow any political
or even any religious consideration to bias his conduct on this occasion. Mr. Finn had thrown
up his seat under the pressure of a false accusation, and it was, the rector thought, for the
honour of the borough that the seat should be restored to him. So Phineas Finn was re-elected
for Tankerville without opposition and without expense; and for six weeks after the ceremony
parcels were showered upon him by the ladies of the borough who sent him worked slippers, scarlet
hunting waistcoats, pocket handkerchiefs, with "P.F." beautifully embroidered, and chains made
of their own hair.

In this conjunction of affairs the editor of The People's Banner found it somewhat difficult
to trim his sails. It was a rule of life with Mr. Quintus Slide to persecute an enemy. An enemy
might at any time become a friend, but while an enemy was an enemy he should be trodden on
and persecuted. Mr. Slide had striven more than once to make a friend of Phineas Finn; but
Phineas Finn had been conceited and stiff-necked. Phineas had been to Mr. Slide an enemy of
enemies, and by all his ideas of manliness, by all the rules of his life, by every principle
which guided him, he was bound to persecute Phineas to the last. During the trial and the few
weeks before the trial he had written various short articles with the view of declaring how
improper it would be should a newspaper express any opinion of the guilt or innocence of a
suspected person while under trial; and he gave two or three severe blows to contemporaries
for having sinned in the matter; but in all these articles he had contrived to insinuate that
the member for Tankerville would, as a matter of course, be dealt with by the hands of justice.
He had been very careful to recapitulate all circumstances which had induced Finn to hate the
murdered man, and had more than once related the story of the firing of the pistol at Macpherson's
Hotel. Then came the telegram from Prague, and for a day or two Mr. Slide was stricken dumb.
The acquittal followed, and Quintus Slide had found himself compelled to join in the general
satisfaction evinced at the escape of an innocent man. Then came the re-election for Tankerville,
and Mr. Slide felt that there was opportunity for another reaction. More than enough had been
done for Phineas Finn in allowing him to elude the gallows. There could certainly be no need
for crowning him with a political chaplet because he had not murdered Mr. Bonteen. Among a
few other remarks which Mr. Slide threw together, the following appeared in the columns of
The People's Banner:--

   We must confess that we hardly understand the principle on
   which Mr. Finn has been re-elected for Tankerville with so
   much enthusiasm,--free of expense,--and without that usual
   compliment to the constituency which is implied by the
   personal appearance of the candidate. We have more than
   once expressed our belief that he was wrongly accused in
   the matter of Mr. Bonteen's murder. Indeed our readers
   will do us the justice to remember that, during the trial
   and before the trial, we were always anxious to allay the
   very strong feeling against Mr. Finn with which the public
   mind was then imbued, not only by the facts of the murder,
   but also by the previous conduct of that gentleman. But we
   cannot understand why the late member should be thought
   by the electors of Tankerville to be especially worthy of
   their confidence because he did not murder Mr. Bonteen. He
   himself, instigated, we hope, by a proper feeling, retired
   from Parliament as soon as he was acquitted. His career
   during the last twelve months has not enhanced his credit,
   and cannot, we should think, have increased his comfort.
   We ventured to suggest after that affair in Judd Street,
   as to which the police were so benignly inefficient, that
   it would not be for the welfare of the nation that a
   gentleman should be employed in the public service whose
   public life had been marked by the misfortune which had
   attended Mr. Finn. Great efforts were made by various
   ladies of the old Whig party to obtain official employment
   for him, but they were made in vain. Mr. Gresham was too
   wise, and our advice,--we will not say was followed,--but
   was found to agree with the decision of the Prime
   Minister. Mr. Finn was left out in the cold in spite
   of his great friends,--and then came the murder of Mr.
   Bonteen.

   Can it be that Mr. Finn's fitness for Parliamentary duties
   has been increased by Mr. Bonteen's unfortunate death, or
   by the fact that Mr. Bonteen was murdered by other hands
   than his own? We think not. The wretched husband, who,
   in the madness of jealousy, fired a pistol at this young
   man's head, has since died in his madness. Does that
   incident in the drama give Mr. Finn any special claim to
   consideration? We think not;--and we think also that the
   electors of Tankerville would have done better had they
   allowed Mr. Finn to return to that obscurity which he
   seems to have desired. The electors of Tankerville,
   however, are responsible only to their borough, and may
   do as they please with the seat in Parliament which is
   at their disposal. We may, however, protest against the
   employment of an unfit person in the service of his
   country,--simply because he has not committed a murder.
   We say so much now because rumours of an arrangement have
   reached our ears, which, should it come to pass,--would
   force upon us the extremely disagreeable duty of referring
   very forcibly to past circumstances, which may otherwise,
   perhaps, be allowed to be forgotten.

CHAPTER LXXII

The End of the Story of Mr. Emilius and Lady Eustace

The interest in the murder by no means came to an end when Phineas Finn was acquitted. The
new facts which served so thoroughly to prove him innocent tended with almost equal weight
to prove another man guilty. And the other man was already in custody on a charge which had
subjected him to the peculiar ill-will of the British public. He, a foreigner and a Jew, by
name Yosef Mealyus,--as every one was now very careful to call him,--had come to England, had
got himself to be ordained as a clergyman, had called himself Emilius, and had married a rich
wife with a title, although he had a former wife still living in his own country. Had he called
himself Jones it would have been better for him, but there was something in the name of Emilius
which added a peculiar sting to his iniquities. It was now known that the bigamy could be certainly
proved, and that his last victim,--our old friend, poor little Lizzie Eustace,--would be rescued
from his clutches. She would once more be a free woman, and as she had been strong enough to
defend her future income from his grasp, she was perhaps as fortunate as she deserved to be.
She was still young and pretty, and there might come another lover more desirable than Yosef
Mealyus. That the man would have to undergo the punishment of bigamy in its severest form,
there was no doubt;--but would law, and justice, and the prevailing desire for revenge, be
able to get at him in such a way that he might be hung? There certainly did exist a strong
desire to prove Mr. Emilius to have been a murderer, so that there might come a fitting termination
to his career in Great Britain.

The police seemed to think that they could make but little either of the coat or of the key,
unless other evidence, that would be almost sufficient in itself, should be found. Lord Fawn
was informed that his testimony would probably be required at another trial,--which intimation
affected him so grievously that his friends for a week or two thought that he would altogether
sink under his miseries. But he would say nothing which would seem to criminate Mealyus. A
man hurrying along with a grey coat was all that he could swear to now,--professing himself
to be altogether ignorant whether the man, as seen by him, had been tall or short. And then
the manufacture of the key,--though it was that which made every one feel sure that Mealyus
was the murderer,--did not, in truth, afford the slightest evidence against him. Even had it
been proved that he had certainly used the false key and left Mrs. Meager's house on the night
in question, that would not have sufficed at all to prove that therefore he had committed a
murder in Berkeley Street. No doubt Mr. Bonteen had been his enemy,--and Mr. Bonteen had been
murdered by an enemy. But so great had been the man's luck that no real evidence seemed to
touch him. Nobody doubted;--but then but few had doubted before as to the guilt of Phineas Finn.

There was one other fact by which the truth might, it was hoped, still be reached. Mr. Bonteen
had, of course, been killed by the weapon which had been found in the garden. As to that a
general certainty prevailed. Mrs. Meager and Miss Meager, and the maid-of-all-work belonging
to the Meagers, and even Lady Eustace, were examined as to this bludgeon. Had anything of the
kind ever been seen in the possession of the clergyman? The clergyman had been so sly that
nothing of the kind had been seen. Of the drawers and cupboards which he used, Mrs. Meager
had always possessed duplicate keys, and Miss Meager frankly acknowledged that she had a general
and fairly accurate acquaintance with the contents of these receptacles; but there had always
been a big trunk with an impenetrable lock,--a lock which required that even if you had the
key you should be acquainted with a certain combination of letters before you could open it,--and
of that trunk no one had seen the inside. As a matter of course, the weapon, when brought to
London, had been kept altogether hidden in the trunk. Nothing could be easier. But a man cannot
be hung because he has had a secret hiding place in which a murderous weapon may have been
stowed away.

But might it not be possible to trace the weapon? Mealyus, on his return from Prague, had certainly
come through Paris. So much was learned,--and it was also learned as a certainty that the article
was of French,--and probably of Parisian manufacture. If it could be proved that the man had
bought this weapon, or even such a weapon, in Paris then,--so said all the police authorities,--it
might be worth while to make an attempt to hang him. Men very skilful in unravelling such mysteries
were sent to Paris, and the police of that capital entered upon the search with most praiseworthy
zeal. But the number of life-preservers which had been sold altogether baffled them. It seemed
that nothing was so common as that gentlemen should walk about with bludgeons in their pockets
covered with leathern thongs. A young woman and an old man who thought that they could recollect
something of a special sale were brought over,--and saw the splendour of London under very
favourable circumstances;--but when confronted with Mr. Emilius, neither could venture to identify
him. A large sum of money was expended,--no doubt justified by the high position which poor
Mr. Bonteen had filled in the counsels of the nation; but it was expended in vain. Mr. Bonteen
had been murdered in the streets at the West End of London. The murderer was known to everybody.
He had been seen a minute or two before the murder. The motive which had induced the crime
was apparent. The weapon with which it had been perpetrated had been found. The murderer's
disguise had been discovered. The cunning with which he had endeavoured to prove that he was
in bed at home had been unravelled, and the criminal purpose of his cunning made altogether
manifest. Every man's eye could see the whole thing from the moment in which the murderer crept
out of Mrs. Meager's house with Mr. Meager's coat upon his shoulders and the life-preserver
in his pocket, till he was seen by Lord Fawn hurrying out of the mews to his prey. The blows
from the bludgeon could be counted. The very moment in which they had been struck had been
ascertained. His very act in hurling the weapon over the wall was all but seen. And yet nothing
could be done. "It is a very dangerous thing hanging a man on circumstantial evidence," said
Sir Gregory Grogram, who, a couple of months since, had felt almost sure that his honourable
friend Phineas Finn would have to be hung on circumstantial evidence. The police and magistrates
and lawyers all agreed that it would be useless, and indeed wrong, to send the case before
a jury. But there had been quite sufficient evidence against Phineas Finn!

In the meantime the trial for bigamy proceeded in order that poor little Lizzie Eustace might
be freed from the incubus which afflicted her. Before the end of July she was made once more
a free woman, and the Rev. Joseph Emilius,--under which name it was thought proper that he
should be tried,--was convicted and sentenced to penal servitude for five years. A very touching
appeal was made for him to the jury by a learned serjeant, who declared that his client was
to lose his wife and to be punished with extreme severity as a bigamist, because it was found
to be impossible to bring home against him a charge of murder. There was, perhaps, some truth
in what the learned serjeant said, but the truth had no effect upon the jury. Mr. Emilius was
found guilty as quickly as Phineas Finn had been acquitted, and was, perhaps, treated with
a severity which the single crime would hardly have elicited. But all this happened in the
middle of the efforts which were being made to trace the purchase of the bludgeon, and when
men hoped two or five or twenty-five years of threatened incarceration might be all the same
to Mr. Emilius. Could they have succeeded in discovering where he had bought the weapon, his
years of penal servitude would have afflicted him but little. They did not succeed; and though
it cannot be said that any mystery was attached to the Bonteen murder, it has remained one
of those crimes which are unavenged by the flagging law. And so the Rev. Mr. Emilius will pass
away from our story.

There must be one or two words further respecting poor little Lizzie Eustace. She still had
her income almost untouched, having been herself unable to squander it during her late married
life, and having succeeded in saving it from the clutches of her pseudo husband. And she had
her title, of which no one could rob her, and her castle down in Ayrshire,--which, however,
as a place of residence she had learned to hate most thoroughly. Nor had she done anything
which of itself must necessarily have put her out of the pale of society. As a married woman
she had had no lovers; and, when a widow, very little fault in that line had been brought home
against her. But the world at large seemed to be sick of her. Mrs. Bonteen had been her best
friend, and, while it was still thought that Phineas Finn had committed the murder, with Mrs.
Bonteen she had remained. But it was impossible that the arrangement should be continued when
it became known,--for it was known,--that Mr. Bonteen had been murdered by the man who was
still Lizzie's reputed husband. Not that Lizzie perceived this,--though she was averse to the
idea of her husband having been a murderer. But Mrs. Bonteen perceived it, and told her friend
that she must--go. It was most unwillingly that the wretched widow changed her faith as to
the murderer; but at last she found herself bound to believe as the world believed; and then
she hinted to the wife of Mr. Emilius that she had better find another home.

"I don't believe it a bit," said Lizzie.

"It is not a subject I can discuss," said the widow.

"And I don't see that it makes any difference. He isn't my husband. You have said that yourself
very often, Mrs. Bonteen."

"It is better that we shouldn't be together, Lady Eustace."

"Oh, I can go, of course, Mrs. Bonteen. There needn't be the slightest trouble about that.
I had thought perhaps it might be convenient; but of course you know best."

She went forth into lodgings in Half Moon Street, close to the scene of the murder, and was
once more alone in the world. She had a child indeed, the son of her first husband, as to whom
it behoved many to be anxious, who stood high in rank and high in repute; but such had been
Lizzie's manner of life that neither her own relations nor those of her husband could put up
with her, or endure her contact. And yet she was conscious of no special sins, and regarded
herself as one who with a tender heart of her own, and a too-confiding spirit, had been much
injured by the cruelty of those with whom she had been thrown. Now she was alone, weeping in
solitude, pitying herself with deepest compassion; but it never occurred to her that there
was anything in her conduct that she need alter. She would still continue to play her game
as before, would still scheme, would still lie; and might still, at last, land herself in that
Elysium of life of which she had been always dreaming. Poor Lizzie Eustace! Was it nature or
education which had made it impossible to her to tell the truth, when a lie came to her hand?
Lizzie, the liar! Poor Lizzie!

CHAPTER LXXIII

Phineas Finn Returns to His Duties

The election at Tankerville took place during the last week in July; and as Parliament was
doomed to sit that year as late as the 10th of August, there was ample time for Phineas to
present himself and take the oaths before the Session was finished. He had calculated that
this could hardly be so when the matter of re-election was first proposed to him, and had hoped
that his reappearance might be deferred till the following year. But there he was, once more
member for Tankerville, while yet there was nearly a fortnight's work to be done, pressed by
his friends, and told by one or two of those whom he most trusted, that he would neglect his
duty and show himself to be a coward, if he abstained from taking his place. "Coward is a hard
word," he said to Mr. Low, who had used it.

"So men think when this or that other man is accused of running away in battle or the like.
Nobody will charge you with cowardice of that kind. But there is moral cowardice as well as
physical."

"As when a man lies. I am telling no lie."

"But you are afraid to meet the eyes of your fellow-creatures."

"Yes, I am. You may call me a coward if you like. What matters the name, if the charge be true?
I have been so treated that I am afraid to meet the eyes of my fellow-creatures. I am like
a man who has had his knees broken, or his arms cut off. Of course I cannot be the same afterwards
as I was before." Mr. Low said a great deal more to him on the subject, and all that Mr. Low
said was true; but he was somewhat rough, and did not succeed. Barrington Erle and Lord Cantrip
also tried their eloquence upon him; but it was Mr. Monk who at last drew from him a promise
that he would go down to the House and be sworn in early on a certain Tuesday afternoon. "I
am quite sure of this," Mr. Monk had said, "that the sooner you do it the less will be the
annoyance. Indeed there will be no trouble in the doing of it. The trouble is all in the anticipation,
and is therefore only increased and prolonged by delay." "Of course it is your duty to go at
once," Mr. Monk had said again, when his friend argued that he had never undertaken to sit
before the expiration of Parliament. "You did consent to be put in nomination, and you owe
your immediate services just as does any other member."

"If a man's grandmother dies he is held to be exempted."

"But your grandmother has not died, and your sorrow is not of the kind that requires or is
supposed to require retirement." He gave way at last, and on the Tuesday afternoon Mr. Monk
called for him at Mrs. Bunce's house, and went down with him to Westminster. They reached their
destination somewhat too soon, and walked the length of Westminster Hall two or three times
while Phineas tried to justify himself. "I don't think," said he, "that Low quite understands
my position when he calls me a coward."

"I am sure, Phineas, he did not mean to do that."

"Do not suppose that I am angry with him. I owe him a great deal too much for that. He is one
of the few friends I have who are entitled to say to me just what they please. But I think
he mistakes the matter. When a man becomes crooked from age it is no good telling him to be
straight. He'd be straight if he could. A man can't eat his dinner with a diseased liver as
he could when he was well."

"But he may follow advice as to getting his liver in order again."

"And so am I following advice. But Low seems to think the disease shouldn't be there. The disease
is there, and I can't banish it by simply saying that it is not there. If they had hung me
outright it would be almost as reasonable to come and tell me afterwards to shake myself and
be again alive. I don't think that Low realises what it is to stand in the dock for a week
together, with the eyes of all men fixed on you, and a conviction at your heart that every
one there believes you to have been guilty of an abominable crime of which you know yourself
to have been innocent. For weeks I lived under the belief that I was to be made away by the
hangman, and to leave behind me a name that would make every one who has known me shudder."

"God in His mercy has delivered you from that."

"He has;--and I am thankful. But my back is not strong enough to bear the weight without bending
under it. Did you see Ratler going in? There is a man I dread. He is intimate enough with me
to congratulate me, but not friend enough to abstain, and he will be sure to say something
about his murdered colleague. Very well;--I'll follow you. Go up rather quick, and I'll come
close after you." Whereupon Mr. Monk entered between the two lamp-posts in the hall, and, hurrying
along the passages, soon found himself at the door of the House. Phineas, with an effort at
composure, and a smile that was almost ghastly at the door-keeper, who greeted him with some
muttered word of recognition, held on his way close behind his friend, and walked up the House
hardly conscious that the benches on each side were empty. There were not a dozen members present,
and the Speaker had not as yet taken the chair. Mr. Monk stood by him while he took the oath,
and in two minutes he was on a back seat below the gangway, with his friend by him, while the
members, in slowly increasing numbers, took their seats. Then there were prayers, and as yet
not a single man had spoken to him. As soon as the doors were again open gentlemen streamed
in, and some few whom Phineas knew well came and sat near him. One or two shook hands with
him, but no one said a word to him of the trial. No one at least did so in this early stage
of the day's proceedings; and after half an hour he almost ceased to be afraid.

Then came up an irregular debate on the great Church question of the day, as to which there
had been no cessation of the badgering with which Mr. Gresham had been attacked since he came
into office. He had thrown out Mr. Daubeny by opposing that gentleman's stupendous measure
for disestablishing the Church of England altogether, although,--as was almost daily asserted
by Mr. Daubeny and his friends,--he was himself in favour of such total disestablishment. Over
and over again Mr. Gresham had acknowledged that he was in favour of disestablishment, protesting
that he had opposed Mr. Daubeny's Bill without any reference to its merits,--solely on the
ground that such a measure should not be accepted from such a quarter. He had been stout enough,
and, as his enemies had said, insolent enough, in making these assurances. But still he was
accused of keeping his own hand dark, and of omitting to say what bill he would himself propose
to bring in respecting the Church in the next Session. It was essentially necessary,--so said
Mr. Daubeny and his friends,--that the country should know and discuss the proposed measure
during the vacation. There was, of course, a good deal of retaliation. Mr. Daubeny had not
given the country, or even his own party, much time to discuss his Church Bill. Mr. Gresham
assured Mr. Daubeny that he would not feel himself equal to producing a measure that should
change the religious position of every individual in the country, and annihilate the traditions
and systems of centuries, altogether complete out of his own unaided brain; and he went on
to say that were he to do so, he did not think that he should find himself supported in such
an effort by the friends with whom he usually worked. On this occasion he declared that the
magnitude of the subject and the immense importance of the interests concerned forbade him
to anticipate the passing of any measure of general Church reform in the next Session. He was
undoubtedly in favour of Church reform, but was by no means sure that the question was one
which required immediate settlement. Of this he was sure,--that nothing in the way of legislative
indiscretion could be so injurious to the country, as any attempt at a hasty and ill-considered
measure on this most momentous of all questions.

The debate was irregular, as it originated with a question asked by one of Mr. Daubeny's supporters,--but
it was allowed to proceed for a while. In answer to Mr. Gresham, Mr. Daubeny himself spoke,
accusing Mr. Gresham of almost every known Parliamentary vice in having talked of a measure
coming, like Minerva, from his, Mr. Daubeny's, own brain. The plain and simple words by which
such an accusation might naturally be refuted would be unparliamentary; but it would not be
unparliamentary to say that it was reckless, unfounded, absurd, monstrous, and incredible.
Then there were various very spirited references to Church matters, which concern us chiefly
because Mr. Daubeny congratulated the House upon seeing a Roman Catholic gentleman with whom
they were all well acquainted, and whose presence in the House was desired by each side alike,
again take his seat for an English borough. And he hoped that he might at the same time take
the liberty of congratulating that gentleman on the courage and manly dignity with which he
had endured the unexampled hardships of the cruel position in which he had been placed by an
untoward combination of circumstances. It was thought that Mr. Daubeny did the thing very well,
and that he was right in doing it;--but during the doing of it poor Phineas winced in agony.
Of course every member was looking at him, and every stranger in the galleries. He did not
know at the moment whether it behoved him to rise and make some gesture to the House, or to
say a word, or to keep his seat and make no sign. There was a general hum of approval, and
the Prime Minister turned round and bowed graciously to the newly-sworn member. As he said
afterwards, it was just this which he had feared. But there must surely have been something
of consolation in the general respect with which he was treated. At the moment he behaved with
natural instinctive dignity, though himself doubting the propriety of his own conduct. He said
not a word, and made no sign, but sat with his eyes fixed upon the member from whom the compliment
had come. Mr. Daubeny went on with his tirade, and was called violently to order. The Speaker
declared that the whole debate had been irregular, but had been allowed by him in deference
to what seemed to be the general will of the House. Then the two leaders of the two parties
composed themselves, throwing off their indignation while they covered themselves well up with
their hats,--and, in accordance with the order of the day, an honourable member rose to propose
a pet measure of his own for preventing the adulteration of beer by the publicans. He had made
a calculation that the annual average mortality of England would be reduced one and a half
per cent., or in other words that every English subject born would live seven months longer
if the action of the Legislature could provide that the publicans should sell the beer as it
came from the brewers. Immediately there was such a rush of members to the door that not a
word said by the philanthropic would-be purifier of the national beverage could be heard. The
quarrels of rival Ministers were dear to the House, and as long as they could be continued
the benches were crowded by gentlemen enthralled by the interest of the occasion. But to sink
from that to private legislation about beer was to fall into a bathos which gentlemen could
not endure; and so the House was emptied, and at about half-past seven there was a count-out.
That gentleman whose statistics had been procured with so much care, and who had been at work
for the last twelve months on his effort to prolong the lives of his fellow-countrymen, was
almost broken-hearted. But he knew the world too well to complain. He would try again next
year, if by dint of energetic perseverance he could procure a day.

Mr. Monk and Phineas Finn, behaving no better than the others, slipped out in the crowd. It
had indeed been arranged that they should leave the House early, so that they might dine together
at Mr. Monk's house. Though Phineas had been released from his prison now for nearly a month,
he had not as yet once dined out of his own rooms. He had not been inside a club, and hardly
ventured during the day into the streets about Pall Mall and Piccadilly. He had been frequently
to Portman Square, but had not even seen Madame Goesler. Now he was to dine out for the first
time; but there was to be no guest but himself.

"It wasn't so bad after all," said Mr. Monk, when they were seated together.

"At any rate it has been done."

"Yes;--and there will be no doing of it over again. I don't like Mr. Daubeny, as you know;
but he is happy at that kind of thing."

"I hate men who are what you call happy, but who are never in earnest," said Phineas.

"He was earnest enough, I thought."

"I don't mean about myself, Mr. Monk. I suppose he thought that it was suitable to the occasion
that he should say something, and he said it neatly. But I hate men who can make capital out
of occasions, who can be neat and appropriate at the spur of the moment,--having, however,
probably had the benefit of some forethought,--but whose words never savour of truth. If I
had happened to have been hung at this time,--as was so probable,--Mr. Daubeny would have devoted
one of his half hours to the composition of a dozen tragic words which also would have been
neat and appropriate. I can hear him say them now, warning young members around him to abstain
from embittered words against each other, and I feel sure that the funereal grace of such an
occasion would have become him even better than the generosity of his congratulations."

"It is rather grim matter for joking, Phineas."

"Grim enough; but the grimness and the jokes are always running through my mind together. I
used to spend hours in thinking what my dear friends would say about it when they found that
I had been hung in mistake;--how Sir Gregory Grogram would like it, and whether men would think
about it as they went home from The Universe at night. I had various questions to ask and answer
for myself,--whether they would pull up my poor body, for instance, from what unhallowed ground
is used for gallows corpses, and give it decent burial, placing 'M.P. for Tankerville' after
my name on some more or less explicit tablet."

"Mr. Daubeny's speech was, perhaps, preferable on the whole."

"Perhaps it was;--though I used to feel assured that the explicit tablet would be as clear
to my eyes in purgatory as Mr. Daubeny's words have been to my ears this afternoon. I never
for a moment doubted that the truth would be known before long,--but did doubt so very much
whether it would be known in time. I'll go home now, Mr. Monk, and endeavour to get the matter
off my mind. I will resolve, at any rate, that nothing shall make me talk about it any more."

CHAPTER LXXIV

At Matching

