WHERE HALF THE WORLD IS WAKING UP

  (From a photograph and autograph given the author)

  Count Okuma, one of the Genro or Elder Statesmen of Japan and
  ex-Premier of the Empire, is an opponent of his country's high
  protective tariff and an earnest advocate of international
  arbitration. That Americans should know something about so
considerable a portion of our human race is manifestly worth while.
And really to know them at all we must know them as they are to-day.

Vast changes are in progress, and even as I write this, the revolution in China, foreshadowed
in the chapters written by me from that country, is remaking the political life of earth's
oldest empire. From Japan to India there is industrial, educational, political ferment. The
old order changes, yielding place to the new.

"Where Half the World is Waking Up" is not inappropriate therefore as the title of the book
now offered to the public. The reader will kindly observe here that I have written of where
half the world is waking up and not merely of the waking-up itself. My purpose has been to
set forth the old and the new in due proportion; to present the play of new forces against
and upon the ancient, the amazingly ancient, forces that have dominated whole races for centuries.
In most places, in fact, the ancient force is still clearly the dominant one. Observe, too,
therefore, that I have written not of where half the world has waked up, but only of where
it is waking up. The significant thing is that the waking is really taking place at all, and
of this there can be no doubt.

It was, in short, with the hope of securing for myself and presenting to others a photograph
of the Orient as it is to-day that I made my long trip through Japan, Korea, Manchuria, {viii}
China, the Philippines, and India during the past year. It was not a pleasure trip nor yet
a hurried "seaport trip." I travelled either entirely across or well into the interior of each
country visited, and all my time was given to study and research to fit me for the preparation
of these articles.

That despite of the care exercised the book contains some errors, is doubtless true. The sources
of information in the Orient are not always easy to find, nor always in accord after one finds
them. Consider, for example, the population of Manchuria: it seems a simple enough matter,
yet it required the help of consuls of two or three nations to enable me to sift out the truth
from the conflicting representations of several writers and so-called authorities.

For my part I can only claim a laborious and painstaking effort to get the facts. Letters of
introduction to eminent Englishmen kindly furnished me by Ambassador Bryce opened the doors
of British officialdom for me, and the friendship of Mr. Roosevelt and letters from Mr. Bryan
and our Department of State proved helpful in other ways. I thus had the good fortune not only
to get the ready fraternal assistance of my brother newspaper men (of all races) everywhere,
and the help of English, German, and American consuls, but I was aided by some of the most
eminent authorities in each country visited--in China, by H. E. Tang Shao-yi, Wu Ting Fang,
Sir Robert Bredon, Dr. C. D. Tenney, Dr. Timothy Richard; in Japan, by ex-Premier Okuma, Viscount
Kaneko, Baron Shibusawa, Dr. Juichi Soyeda; in Hong Kong, by Governor-General Sir Frederick
Lugard; in Manila by Governor-General Forbes, Vice-Governor Gilbert; in India, the members
of the Viceroy's Cabinet, Hon. Krishnaswami Iyer, Dr. J. P. Jones, etc, etc. To all of these
and to scores of others, my grateful acknowledgments are tendered. They helped me get information,
but of course are in no case to be held responsible for any opinions that I have expressed.

To Mr. G. D. Adams, of Akron, Ohio, and Dr. Arthur {ix} Mez, of Mannheim, Germany, two generous
fellow-travellers, my thanks are due for the use of many of their photographs, and I am also
indebted to The World's Work and The Review of Reviews for permission to republish articles
that have already appeared in these magazines. The larger number of chapters included in this
volume, however, were originally prepared with a view to their use in my own paper, The Progressive
Farmer. They are, therefore, often more elementary in character, let me say in the outset,
than if they had been written exclusively for bookbuyers, but it is my hope that their journalistic
flavor, even if it has this disadvantage, will also be found to have certain compensating qualities.

Perhaps just one other thing ought to be said: that practically every article about any country
was written while I was still in the country described. In this way I hoped not only to write
with greater freshness and vividness, but I was enabled to have my articles revised and criticised
by friends well informed concerning the subjects discussed. The reader will please bear in
mind, therefore, that a letter about Tokyo is also a letter from Tokyo, a letter about Korea
is a letter from Korea, etc., and shift his viewpoint accordingly. I have also thought it best
to be frank with the reader and let the chapters on China remain exactly as they were written--presenting
a pen picture of the Dragon Empire as it appeared on the eve of the outbreak, while the revolution
was indeed definitely in prospect but not yet a reality.

-----

"Give us as many anecdotes as you can," was old Samuel Johnson's advice to Boswell, when that
worthy proposed to write of Corsica; and this wise suggestion I have sought to keep in mind
in all my travel.

C. P. Raleigh, N. C. December 1, 1911.

{xi}

CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                                 PAGE

I. Japan: The Land of Upside Down                          3

  A Land of Contradictions
  Music as an Example
  Marriage and the Home Life
  Patriarchal Ideas Still Dominant.

II. Snapshots of Japanese Life and Philosophy              9

  What a Japanese City Is Like
  Strange Clothing of the Japanese
  Who Ever Saw So Many Babies?
  Alphonse and Gaston Outdone
  The Grace of the Little Women
  How the Old Japan and the Old South Were Alike
  A "Moral Distinction" Between Producers and Non-Producers.

III. Japanese Farming and Farmer Folk                     17

  Japanese Farm Children Getting More Schooling
    than American Farm Children
  No Illiteracy in the New Japan
  Where Five Acres Is a Large Farm
  How Iowa Might Feed the Whole United States
  Farming Without Horses or Oxen
  What the Japanese Farmers Raise
  The Crime of Soil-waste
  All Work Done by Hand
  Cooperative Credit Societies a Success
  Farm Houses Grouped in Villages
  "A Seller of the Ancestral Land"
  The Japanese Love of the Beautiful a Suggestion for America.

IV. "Welfare Work" in Japanese Factories                   29

  Manufacturing Bound to Increase
  Tariff Legislation Unfair to Agriculture
  A Visit to a Progressive Japanese Factory
  How the Factory Operatives Are Looked After
  Stricter Factory Legislation Coming.

V. Does Japanese Competition Menace the White Man's Trade   34

  A Study of Japanese Industrial Conditions
  Japanese Labor Cheap but Inefficient
  Actual Cost of Output Little Cheaper than in America
  Laborers in a State {xii} of Deplorable Inexperience
  Illustrations of Japanese Inefficiency
  Some Current Misconceptions Corrected
  Labor Wage Has Increased 40 Per Cent, in Eight Years
  The Burden of Taxation
  High Tariff Will Decrease Japan's Export Trade
  Subsidy Policy Destroying Individual Initiative
  Japanese Competition Not a Serious Menace to the White Man.

VI. Buddhism, Shintoism, and Christianity in Japan         48

  The Artistic Touch of the Japanese
  Religion Without Morals
  Buddhism in Fact vs. Buddhism Idealized by Arnold
  Official Notices Prohibiting Christianity
  Christianity "Puts Too High an Estimate on Woman"
  The Worth of the Individual Not Recognized
  The Elemental Significance of Japan's Awakening
  A New Type of Civilization.

VII. Korea: "The Land of the Morning Calm" 60

  I Have Become a Contemporary of David
  The Fascination of a Primitive City
  Some Odd Korean Customs-A True Romance and an Odd One
  Many Faces Marked by Smallpox
  A Typical Monarchy of Ancient Asia-The Honorable Mr. Yang-ban
  Six Men to Carry Fifty Dollars' Worth of Money
  Japanese Annexation
  Splendid Work of Foreign Missionaries.

VIII. Manchuria: Fair and Fertile                          70

  Some First-hand Stories of the Russo-Japanese War
  A Bit of History with a Lesson
  The Site of the World's Next Great War
  Manchuria: Fair and Fertile
  Fat Harvests of Food, Feed, and Fuel
  A Land Where Everybody "Knows Beans"
  Golden Opportunities for Stock-raising
  Better Plows and Level Culture
  Graves as Thick as Corn Shocks

IX. Where Japan Is Absorbing an Empire                     78

  Manchuria the One Great Oriental Empire Not Yet Developed
  Its Strategic Importance
  Why the "Open Door" Concerns Us All
  Japan's Shrewd Policies {xiii}
  Contempt of Chinese Authority
  Japan at Home vs. Japan in Manchuria
  How the Open Door Policy Was Violated
  Will Manchuria Go the Way of Korea?
  A Bit of Chinese Wit and Wisdom
  Truth Is in the Interest of Peace.

X. Light from China on Problems at Home                    93

  A Chinese Martyr-Hero
  The Most Tremendous Moral Achievement of Recent Times
  A Lesson for America
  Putting Officials on Salaries
  Money Changers and Title Changers
  Making Education Practical
  The Parcels Post and Tariff Reform.

XI. The New China: Awake and at Work                     102

  The Coming National Parliament
  The Successful War Against Opium
  China's Right-about-face in Education
  Building Up an Army
  Attacking the Graft System
  Railroads, Posts, and Telegraphs
  America's Relations with China.

XII. A Trip into Rural China                             116

  The Camels from Mongolia
  Strange Traffic and Travel in Nankou Pass
  The Great Wall of China
  Surprisingly Progressive Farming Methods.

XIII. From Peking to the Yangtze-Kiang                   123

  Street Life in Peking
  History That Is History
  Martyrdoms That Have Enriched the World
  Average Wages 15 to 18 Cents a Day
  Homes Without Firesides
  All China a Vast Cemetery
  Keeping on Good Terms with Dragons
  The Blessings of Our Alphabet
  Confucius as a Moral Teacher
  My Friendship with a Descendant of Confucius.

XIV. Sidelights on Chinese Character and Industry         132

  Healthy Public Sentiment
  Slavery and Foot-binding Still Practised
  "Big Feet No B'long Pretty"
  The Popularity of a No. 2 Wife
  The Virtue That Is Next to Godliness Largely Disregarded
  Some Discredited Americans Discovered Abroad
  A 600-Mile Trip on the Yangtze {xiv} River
  An Interview with Wu Ting Fang
  Farming on the Yangtze
  Shanghai Factory Laborers Paid 12 Cents a Day.

XV. Farewell to China                                     142

  A City of 2,000,000 People Without a Vehicle
  A Dead Chinaman More Important and Respected Than a Live One
  Queer Features of Chinese Funerals
  Cruelty of Chinese Punishments
  A Sample of Chinese Humor: The Story of the Magic Jar
  Amusing Trials of a Land Buyer
  "Pidgin English"
  Everything Is Saved
  The Influence That Is Remaking China.

XVI. What I Saw in the Philippines                       153

  In Manila
  A Trip Through Five Provinces
  What the Philippine Country Looks Like
  Every Filipino Has Cigarette and a Clean Suit
  A Mania for Cock-fighting
  Snapshots of Philippine Life
  Labor the One Thing Lacking.

XVII. What the United States Is Doing in the Philippines 163

  Thirty Thousand White People and 7,000,000 Filipinos
  Rich Resources and Varied Products
  Millions in Lumber
  How the Islands Are Governed
  Restricting the Suffrage
  Education: Achievements of the American Government
  Postal Savings Banks and the Torrens System
  Public Health Work
  Building Roads
  And Then Keeping Them Up
  "A George Junior Republic."

XVIII. Asia's Greatest Lesson foe America . . 173

  Where 10 Cents a Day Is a Laborer's Wage
  The Savage Struggle for Existence in the East
  Tasks Heart-sickening in Their Heaviness
  Where Women Are Burden-bearers
  $12 a Year for a Farm Hand
  An Overcrowded Population Not the Chief Cause of Asia's Poverty
  A Defective Organization of Industry Responsible
  Foolish Opposition to Labor-saving Tools
  Our Debt to Machinery
  Knowledge Itself a Productive Agency
  Ineffectiveness of Oriental Labor
  Tools and Knowledge the Secret of Wealth
  Importance of Our Racial Heritage
  The Final Lesson.

{xv}

XIX. The Straits Settlements and Burma                   186

  The Amazing Industry of the Chinese
  Easy Money in Cocoanuts
  How Germany Is Capturing Oriental Trade
  Rangoon the City of Gorgeous Colors
  Burma's Buddhist Temples
  Rangoon's Beasts of Burden
  Where the Elephants Do the Work
  Some First-hand Jungle Stories
  My Lord the Elephant
  Good-by to Burma.

XX. Hinduism--and the Himalayas                         198

  Theoretical vs. Practical Hinduism
  The Kalighat Temple, Calcutta
  Human Sacrifices
  Two Indian Places of Worship: A Contrast
  A Visit to Benares
  Burning the Bodies of the Dead
  "Religion" as It Is in Benares
  The Himalayas: A New and Happier Subject.

XXI. "The Poor Benighted Hindus"                         210

  India's Enormous Population
  "The Wealth of the Indies" a Romance
  A Typical Indian Village
  No Chairs, Mattresses, Knives, or Forks Used
  Where It Is 105 at Midnight
  "Gunga Din" in Evidence
  The Lady of Banbury Cross Outdone.

XXII. Hindu Farming and Farm Life                        218

  Primitive Tools Used by Farmers
  What Crops Are Grown
  Where Drought Means Death
  Reducing the Ravages of Famine
  Usury and a Remedy
  Where America Is Behind
  Landowner and Farm Laborer
  Salaam, O Little Folk!

XXIII. The Caste System in India                         226

  No Man May Rise Higher, but May Fall Lower
  How Fatalism Sustains Caste
  Contamination by Touch
  A Bone Collector's Pride of Rank
  The "Thief Caste"
  Caste and the Banyan Tree
  A Maharaja's Defence of Caste
  Some Forces That Are Battering Down the System
  Foreign Travel Weakening Caste.

XXIV. The Plight of the Hindu Woman                      236

  "Woman Is Not to Be Trusted"
  Twelve-year-old Brides and Bridegrooms
  A Wedding Procession in Agra {xvi}
  5000 Rupees for a Wedding Feast
  The Plight of the Child-wives
  Cruel Treatment of Widows
  The Picture Not Wholly Dark
  One Worthy Tribute to the Grace of Woman.

XXV. More Leaves from an India Notebook                 246

  Some Historic Indian Cities
  India No More Homogeneous than Europe
  English Rule: An Interview with Mr. Krishnaswami Iyer
  Indian Wealth in a Few Hands
  16 Cents a Day an Incredibly High Wage
  No Horses on Indian Farms
  Bombay a Great Cotton Market
  The Story of a Man-eater
  A Snake Story to End With.

XXVI. What the Orient May Teach Us                     261

  Conservation the Keynote
  What Neglect of Her Forests Has Cost China
  Forestry Lessons from Japan and Korea
  Conserving Individual Wealth
  The Essential Immorality of Waste
  Avoiding the Wastes of War
  Preserving Our Physical Stamina and Racial Strength
  A Lesson from China
  Patriotism as a Moral Force
  The Coming "Conflict of Color"
  Oriental vs. Occidental Ideals.

{xvii}

ILLUSTRATIONS

Count Shige-Nobu Okuma of Japan           Frontispiece

                                                  PAGE

The Giant Avenue of Cryptomerias at Nikko           13

Typical Japanese Costumes and Temple Architecture   14

Japanese Farming Scenes                             19

Japanese School Children                            20

The Great Buddha (Diabutsu) at Kamakura             53

The Degenerate Koreans at Rest and at Work          54

Like Scenes from Our Western Prairies               81

Manchurian Women (showing peculiar head-dress)      82

Chinese Waste-paper Collector                       82

Pu Yi the Son of Heaven and
  Emperor of the Middle Kingdom                    105

How China Is Dealing with Opium Intemperance       106

A Man-made Desert                                  117

Pumping Water for Irrigation                       117

Transportation and Travel in China                 118

Fashionable Chinese Dinner Party                   137

How Lumber Is Sawed in the Orient                  137

A Quotation from Confucius                         138

The Great Wall of China                            147

Chinese Woman's Ruined Feet                        147

Chinese School Children                            148

The American Consulate at Antung                   148

A Filipino's Home                                  157

The Carabao, the Work-stock of the Filipinos       158

An Old Spanish Cathedral                           158

Society Belles of Mindanao, Philippine Islands     181

A Street Scene in Manila                           181 {xviii} Two Kinds of Workers in Burma
182

Types at Darjeeling, Northern India,
  and at Delhi, Central India                      205

Two Rangoon Types                                  206

A Hindu Faquir                                     213

Some Fashionable Hindus                            213

Hindu Children                                     214

The Taj Mahal from the Entrance Gate               241

Gunga Din on Dress Parade                          242

Bathing in the Sacred Ganges at Benares            249

The Battle-scarred and
  World-famous Residency at Lucknow                250

Burning the Bodies of Dead Hindus                  255

An Indian Camel Cart                               255

Travel in India                                    256

{xix}

WHERE HALF THE WORLD IS WAKING UP

{3}

I

JAPAN: THE LAND OF UPSIDE DOWN

"I cannot help thinking," said one of my friends to me when I left home, "that when you get
over on the other side of the world, in Japan and China, you will have to walk upside down
like the flies on the ceiling!"

While I find that this is not true in a physical sense, it is true, as Mr. Percival Lowell
has pointed out, that, with regard to the manners and customs of the people, everything is
reversed, and the surest way to go right is to take pains to go dead wrong! "To speak backward,
write backward, read backward, is but the A B C of Oriental contrariety."

Alice need not have gone to Wonderland; she should have come to Japan.

I cannot get used, for example, to seeing men start at what with us would be the back of a
book or paper and read toward the front; and it is said that no European or American ever gets
used to the construction of a Japanese sentence, considered merely from the standpoint of thought-arrangement.
I had noticed that the Japanese usually ended their sentences with an emphatic upward spurt
before I learned that with them the subject of a sentence usually comes last (if at all), as
for example, "By a rough road yesterday came John," instead of, "John came by a rough road
yesterday."

And this, of course, is but one illustration of thousands that might be given to justify my
title, "The Land of Upside Down," the land of contradictions to all our Occidental ideas. That
{4} Japan is a land "where the flowers have no odor and the birds no song" has passed into
a proverb that is almost literally true; and similarly, the far-famed cherry blossoms bear
no fruit. The typesetters I saw in the Kokumin Shimbum office were singing like birds, but
the field-hands I saw at Komaba were as silent as church-worshippers. The women carry children
on their backs and not in their arms. The girls dance with their hands, not with their feet,
and alone, not with partners. An ox is worth more than a horse. The people bathe frequently,
but in dirty water. The people are exceptionally artistic, yet the stone "lions" at Nikko Temple
look as much like bulldogs as lions. A man's birthday is not celebrated, but the anniversary
of his death is. The people are immeasurably polite, and yet often unendurably cocky and conceited.
Kissing or waltzing, even for man and wife, would be improper in public, but the exposure of
the human body excites no surprise. The national government is supposed to be modern, and yet
only 2 per cent, of the people--the wealthiest--can vote. Famed for kindness though the people
are, war correspondents declared the brutality of Japanese soldiers to the Chinese at Port
Arthur such as "would damn the fairest nation on earth." Though the nation is equally noted
for simplicity of living, it is a Japanese banker, coming to New York, who breaks even America's
record for extravagance, by giving a banquet costing $40 a plate. The people are supposed to
be singularly contented, and yet Socialism has had a rapid growth. The Emperor is regarded
as sacred and almost infallible, and yet the Crown Prince is not a legitimate son. Although
the government is one of the most autocratic on earth, it has nevertheless adopted many highly
"paternalistic" schemes-government ownership of railways and telegraphs, for example. The people
work all the time, but they refuse to work as strenuously as Americans. The temples attract
thousands of people, but usually only in a spirit of frolic: in the first Shinto temple I visited
the priests offered me sake (the national liquor) {5} to drink. Labor per day is amazingly
cheap, but, in actual results, little cheaper than American labor.

It is amid such a maze of contradictions and surprises that one moves in Japan. When I go into
a Japanese home, for example, it is a hundred times more important to take off my shoes than
it is to take off my hat--even though, as happened this week when I called on a celebrated
Japanese singer, there be holes in my left sock. (But I was comforted later when I learned
that on President Taft's visit to a famous Tokyo teahouse his footwear was found to be in like
plight.)

Speaking of music, we run squarely against another oddity, in that native Japanese (as well
as Chinese) music usually consists merely of monotonous twanging on one or two strings--so
that I can now understand the old story of Li Hung Chang's musical experiences in America.
His friends took him to hear grand opera singers, to listen to famous violinists, but these
moved him not; the most gifted pianists failed equally to interest him. But one night the great
Chinaman went early to a theatre, and all at once his face beamed with delight, and he turned
to his friends in enthusiastic gratitude: "We have found it at last!" he exclaimed. "That is
genuine music!" . . . And it was only the orchestra "tuning up" their instruments!

I might as well say just here that this story, while good, always struck me as a humorous exaggeration
till I came to Japan, but the music which I heard the other night in one of the most fashionable
and expensive Japanese restaurants in Tokyo was of exactly the same character--like nothing
else in all the world so much as an orchestra tuning up! And yet by way of modification (as
usual) it must be said that appreciation of Western music is growing, and one seldom hears
in classical selections a sweeter combination of voice and piano than Mrs. Tamaki Shibata's,
while my Japanese student-friend has also surprised me by singing "Suwanee River" and other
old-time American favorites like a genuine Southerner.

Take the social relations of the Japanese people as another {6} example of contrariety. Here
the honorable sex is not the feminine but the masculine. There is even a proverb, I believe,
"Honor men, despise women." Perhaps the translation "despise" is too strong, but certainly
it would be regarded as nothing but contemptible weakness for young men to show any such regard
for young women, or husbands for their wives, as is common in America. The wives exist solely
for their husbands, nor must the wife object if the husband maintains other favorites, or even
brings these favorites into the home with her. And although a man is with his wife a much greater
part of his time than is the case in America, he may have little or no voice in selecting her;
in fact, he may see her only once before marrying.

After having seen probably half a million or more Japanese, Sundays and week-days, I have not
noticed a single young Japanese couple walking together, and in the one case where I saw a
husband and a wife walking thus side by side I discovered on investigation that the man was blind!

"For a young couple to select each other as in America," said a young Japanese gentleman to
me, "would be considered immoral, and as for a young man calling on a young woman, that never
happens except clandestinely." And when I asked if it was true that when husband and wife go
together the woman must follow the man instead of walking beside him as his equal, he answered:
"But it is very, very seldom that the two go out together."

My Japanese friend also told me that the young man often has considerable influence in selecting
his life-partner (in case it is for life: there is one divorce to every three to five marriages),
but the young woman has no more voice in the matter than the commodity in any other bargain-and-sale.
When a young man or young woman gets of marriageable age, which is rather early, the parents
decide on some satisfactory prospective partner, and a "middleman" interviews the parents of
the prospective partner aforesaid, and if they are willing, and {7} financial and other considerations
are satisfactory, it doesn't matter what the girl thinks, nor does it matter much whether young
Barkis himself is "willin'." The Sir Anthony Absolutes in Japan indeed brook no opposition.
All of which, while not wholly commendable (my young Japanese friend himself dislikes the plan,
at least in his own prospective case), has at least the advantage of leaving but remarkably
few bachelors and old maids in Japan. Here every man's house may not be his castle, but it
is certainly his nursery. Usually, too, in the towns at least, his home is his shop; the front
part full of wares, with no hard and fast dividing line between merchandise rooms and the living
rooms, children being equally conspicuous and numerous in both compartments.

Japan is still governed largely on patriarchal lines. The Emperors themselves depend largely
on the patriarchal spirit for their power, claiming direct descent in unbroken line from the
Sun-Goddess, while the people are supposed to be themselves descendants of Emperors or of minor
gods. In family life the patriarchal idea is still more prominent, the father being the virtual
ruler until he abdicates in favor of the eldest son.

Ancestor-worship is general, of course, and a typical case is that of my young Nikko friend,
who tells me that in his home are memorial tablets to six of his most recently deceased ancestors,
and that hot rice is placed before these tablets each morning. Now the teaching is that the
spirits of the dead need the odor of the rice for nourishment, and also require worship of
other kinds. Consequently the worst misfortune that can befall a man is to die without heirs
to honor his memory (the mere dying itself is not so bad); and if an oldest son die unmarried
such action amounts almost to treason to the family.

Moreover, if a man be without sons (daughters don't count), he may adopt a son; and the cases
of adoption are surprisingly frequent. Count Okuma, ex-prime minister of the empire, whom I
visited last Sunday, adopted his son-in-law as his {8} legal son. A distinguished banker I
visited is also an adopted son; and in a comparatively brief list of eminent Japanese, a sort
of abbreviated national "Who's Who," I find perhaps twenty cases in which these eminent officials
and leaders have been adopted and bear other family names than those with which they were born.

The willingness to give up one's name in adoption, viewed in the light of the excessive devotion
to one's own ancestors and family name, is only another illustration of Japanese contrariety.
It is a land of surprises.

Miyanoshita, Japan.

{9}

II

SNAPSHOTS OF JAPANESE LIFE AND PHILOSOPHY

"What is a Japanese city like?" Well, let us "suppose," as the children say. You know the American
city nearest you, or the one you live in. Suppose then you should wake up in this city to-morrow
morning and find in the first place that forty-nine people out of every fifty have put on such
unheard-of clothing as to make you rub your eyes in wonder as to whether you are asleep or
awake; next, that everybody has become six inches shorter, and that all these hundred-thousand
five-foot men and four-foot women have unanimously developed most violent sunburn--have become
bronzed almost beyond recognition.

Moreover, the high buildings you once knew have all disappeared, and a wilderness chiefly of
tiny one and two story houses has taken their places, wherein the first story, even in two-story
buildings, is so low that all your new brown friends warn you by a gesture to duck your head
as you go through the doors, while the second story is usually little more than a garret.

Next, a wild jargon of unmeaning voices strikes your ear and you discover that ninety-nine
people out of a hundred have forgotten how to speak English. More than this, the English signs
are no more, and on the billboards and before the business offices are marks that look as if
a thousand ostriches fresh from a thousand ink barrels had been set to scratching new signs
to take the places of the old. You pick up a book {10} or the morning paper, and the same thing
has happened--pig tracks, chicken tracks, and double bowknots fantastically tied instead of
English type--and everybody begins at the back of the book and reads toward him instead of
reading the way you have grown used to!

And the buggies, carriages, and automobiles: what on earth has become of them? There's hardly
a horse in sight, but dozens or scores of men with bare legs and odd clothes, each flying around
pulling a light two-wheeled jinrikisha, a man or a woman seated in each man-drawn "buggy";
and there are dozens of other bare-legged men laboriously pulling heavy loads of vegetables,
freight, and even lumber and giant telegraph poles! You jump into one of the rickshaws and
forget your strange little Puck-like steed in the marvel of your surroundings till a voice
from the shafts makes you feel like Balaam when the ass spoke to him!

By this time you begin to get a hazy idea as to how the people are dressed, and as nearly as
you can make out, it is something like this:

Evidently all the inhabitants of an ancient Roman city, a modern American town, a half-dozen
Hindoo villages, and several thousand seashore bathers have all thrown their clothes--(or the
lack of them!)--into one tremendous pile, and everybody has rushed in pell-mell and put on
the first thing, or the first two or three things, that came to hand. There is every conceivable
type of clothing, but perhaps the larger number have wound up with something like a light bathing
suit and a sort of gingham dressing-gown belted over it; and if one has less than this, why,
then, as the Japanese say, "Shikata na gai" (All right; it can't be helped). In the shops and
stores one passes a few men clad only in their own integrity and a loin-cloth, and both children
and grown people dress with a hundred times more disregard of convention than the negroes in
America.

Of shoes, there is an equally great variety as of clothing, {11} but the majority of men, women,
and children (in muddy weather at least) have compromised on the "getas," a sort of wooden
sole strapped on the foot, with wooden pieces put fore and aft the instep, these pieces throwing
the foot and sole about three inches above ground. It looks almost as difficult to walk in
them as to walk on stilts, but away the people go, young and old, and the muddy places marked
by the strange footwear look as if the corrugated wheels of a hundred mowing-machines had passed
along! In most cases the clatter of the "get as" is the loudest noise on the streets, for the
Japanese are remarkably quiet: in Tokyo to-day I saw a thousand of them waiting to see the
Empress, and an American crowd would literally have made more noise in a minute than they made
in an hour.

On entering their houses, as we have already noticed, the people take off their getas, sandals,
shoes or whatever outer footwear is used--for the very good reason that the people sit on the
floor (on mats or on the floor itself), eat on the floor (very daintily, however), and sleep
on the floor, so that to walk over the floor here with muddy feet would be the same as if an
American should walk roughshod over his chairs, table and bed. Even in the Japanese department
store I visited this morning cloth covers were put on my shoes, and this afternoon at the Ni-no
Go Reiya Shinto temple I had to go in my stocking feet.

Then the babies--who ever saw as many babies to the square inch? About 10 per cent of the male
population seems to be hauling other men, but 50 per cent, of the female population seems hardly
enough to carry the wise and happy-looking little Jap babies--not in go-carts (a go-cart or
a hired nurse is almost never seen), but on the back. And these little women who when standing
are only about as tall as you are when sitting--they seem hardly more than children themselves,
so that you recall Kipling's saying of Japan: "A four-foot child walks with a three-foot child,
who is holding the hand {12} of a two-foot child, who carries on her back a one-foot child."

Boys in their teens are also seen with babies strapped on their backs in the same loose-fitting,
sack-like baby-holders, and after work-time the father takes a turn at the same business. You
are reminded of the negro who said to another: "'Fo Gawd, Bill, you's got the mos' chillun
any nigger I ever seed. Why, I passed yo' house yistiddy mornin' at nine erclock and throwed
a brick on top and hollered 'Fiah!' an' at five erclock in the evenin' nigger chillun was still
runnin' out!" It seems sometimes as if such an incident, with Jap children substituted for
negroes (I doubt if there is a negro here), might actually happen in Japan.

And those two men bowing to each other as they meet--are they rehearsing as Alphonse and Gaston
for the comedy show to-night, or are they serious? No, they are serious, for yonder is another
pair meeting in the same way, and yonder another couple separating with even more violent "convulsions
of politeness"--and nobody laughing but yourself. No wonder the Japanese are strong: they only
need to meet a few friends a day to get exercise enough to keep them in trim! Look again: those
women meeting at the depot, for example (for there are familiar-looking street cars and less
familiar-looking passenger cars amid all these strange surroundings). There is the woman with
her hair combed straight back, which, I am told, means that she is a widow; one with an odd
Japanese topknot, which means that she is married, and a younger one whose hair is arranged
in the style of unmarried girls; and though they are evidently bosom friends, they do not embrace
and kiss at meeting--to kiss in public would be shocking to the Japanese--and you can only
guess the depth of their affection by the greater warmth and emphasis of their bows to one another.

{13}

  This magnificent avenue, twenty-five miles in length, consists of
  trees planted by daimyos, or small lords, as a memorial to the great
  Japanese warrior and statesman, Iyeyasu. A spirit of simplicity and
  love of nature has produced a nobler monument than extravagance
  could possibly have done.

{14}

  In the temple picture notice also how the limbs of the trees have
  been trained. Many fantastic effects are often produced in this way.

{12 continued}

They are trained in politeness from their youth up, are these Japanese; and it is perhaps the
greatest charm of both young and old. I must have seen a full hundred thousand Japanese {15}
by this time, and I do not recall one in the attitude of scolding or abuse, while authorities
tell me that the Japanese language simply has no words to enable one to swear or curse. I was
also interested to have the American Ambassador here tell me that in all his three years' stay
in Japan, and with all the freedom with which a million children run about the streets and
stores, he has never seen a man impatient with a child. At the Imperial University yesterday
morning I noticed two college boys part with the same deep courtesy used by the older men,
and the little five-year-old girl near Chuzenji the other day thanked me for my gift with the
most graceful of Eastern salaams.

I shall not say that the excessive ceremoniousness of the men does not at times seem ludicrous,
but when you come to your hotel dining-room, and the inexpressibly dainty little Japanese girls,
moving almost noiselessly on their sandaled feet (no getas indoors) welcome each guest with
smiling bows, happy, refined and graceful, a very different impression of Japanese courtesy
comes over you. In America, unfortunately, the like courteous attention under such circumstances
might be misinterpreted, but here you are only reminded of how a thousand years of courtesy
and gentle manners have given the women of Japan--pretty though they are not, judged by our
Western standards--an unsurpassed grace of manner and happiness of disposition together with
Shakespeare's well-praised "voice, soft and low, an excellent thing in woman."

And here and everywhere, as in the old fable of the man with the overcoat, must not such sun-like
gentleness be more powerful in compelling deference than all the stormy strength of the "new
woman"?

Which reminds me that however much the social, political, and economic
revolution of the last forty years may have changed the national
character (and upon this point I shall not speak till later), it is
certain that Old Japan and the Old South were distinguished for not a
few characteristics {16} in common. For example, we are reminded of
the South's ante-bellum civilization when we learn that in old Japan
"the business of money-making was held in contempt by the superior
classes," and of all forms of business, agriculture was held in
highest esteem. Next to the nobility stood the Samurai, or soldier
class, the social rank of all other persons then being as follows: (1)
farmers, (2) artisans, (3) merchants. And farming was thus not only
regarded as the most honorable of all occupations, but farmers in the
early ages were privileged to wear swords, the emblem of rank next to
the nobility.
  There is a generally, in militant society, small respect for the
  common forms of labor. But in old Japan the occupation of the farmer
  and artisan were not despised; trade alone appears to have been
  considered degrading, and the distinction may have been partly a
  moral one."

I wonder if there is not really a great deal more than we have realized in what Hearn here
suggests as to the soundness and essential "morality" of the Japanese plan of ranking farming
and manufacturing above trade as occupations? Morally and economically considered, it is the
men who actually produce wealth rather than those men who trade or barter in the products of
other men's labor who deserve most honor. They serve the world best: The barterers are, in
limited numbers, necessary and useful servants of those who do produce, but the strength of
a state manifestly lies in the classes who are really creators of values.

Tokyo, Japan.

{17}

III

JAPANESE FARMING AND FARMER FOLK

I went yesterday to the Agricultural College of the Imperial University of Japan, situated
at Komaba, near Tokyo, where I had an appointment with Director Matsui. My purpose was to get
further information concerning the general condition of Japanese farmers and Japanese farming,
but the biggest fact my researches brought out was not in regard to rice or barley or potatoes
or taro, or any other field product of the Mikado's empire.

Rather it was a fact with regard to what is in every land the most important of all crops--the
crop of boys and girls. And the big fact I discovered was simply this:

These brown Mongolian farm children, whose land we opened to civilization but fifty years ago,
and whom we thought of but yesterday as backward "heathen"--they are getting, as a general
proposition, just twice as much schooling as is furnished pupils in many of our American rural
districts: their parents are providing, in their zeal for their children's welfare, just twice
as good educational facilities as we are giving many of our white farm boys and girls--boys
and girls who have in their veins the blood of a race which has carried the flag of human progress
for a thousand years, and whom we are expecting to continue leaders in civilization and enlightenment.

In other words, so Doctor Matsui told me (and I went to-day to the Japanese National Department
of Education to verify the fact), the Japanese farm boys and girls are getting ten months'
schooling a year, while the farm boy or girl {18} in my own state is getting only five or six
months--and when I was in a country school fifteen years ago, not nearly so much as that! Do
you wonder that I avoided telling the Japanese educational officer just how our provision for
farm boys and girls compared with Japan's? Also that I neglected to tell him how we compare
in the matter of utilizing school advantages, when he showed me that of all the children between
six and fourteen in all the empire of Japan the school attendance is 98 per cent.--98 out of
every 100 children of "school age" attending school, and in several provinces 99 out of every
100! Thirty-five years ago the average school attendance in Japan was only 28, and in 1893
only 59, but by the time of the war with Russia it had passed 90, and since then has been climbing
straight and steadily toward the amazing maximum itself, the official figures showing a gain
of 1 per cent, a year--94 per cent., then 95, then 96, then 97, and now 98, and the leaders
are now ambitious for 99 or 100, as they told me to-day.

When this officer of an "inferior race" showed me, furthermore, that Japan is so intent upon
educating every boy and girl in her borders that she compels attendance on the public schools
for eight years, I didn't tell him that in civilized America, in the great enlightened nation
so long held up to him as a model, demagogues and others in many states on one pretext or another
have defeated every effort for effective compulsory education laws, so that if a boy's parents
are indifferent to his future, the state does not compel them to give him a fighting chance
in life--for the state's own sake and for the boy's.

{19}

  The upper picture shows a rice field in the foreground, tea
  alongside the buildings, and the graceful feathery bamboo in the
  background; also, an unusual sight on a Japanese farm, a group of
  cattle. The lower picture shows the work of transplanting rice.

{20}

  Boys predominate in the upper picture, girls in the lower. A system
  of compulsory education is enforced in Japan, and 98 per cent, of
  the children of school age attend. Even the country schools run ten
  months in the year--longer than in a majority of our states.

{18 continued}

With these facts before me, as I have said, I did not make any vainglorious boasts of the great
educational progress of our own states these last twenty years: However much progress we have
made, these brown Japanese "heathen" have beaten us. While there is no official census on the
question of illiteracy here, every Japanese man in his twenties must serve {21} two years in
the army (unless he is in a normal school studying to be a teacher), and a record is made as
to the literacy or illiteracy of each recruit. That is to say, there is a place where the fact
of any recruit's inability to read would be recorded, but the Department of Education informed
me to-day that the illiterate column is now absolutely blank.

There are no illiterates among Japan's rising generation.

More than this, we have to reflect that it is in their poverty that the Japanese are thus doing
more than we are doing in our plenty. We waste more in a year than they make. Even with a hundred
acres of land the American farmer is likely to consider himself poor, but when I asked my Japanese
guide the other day if two cho (five acres) would be an average sized farm here he said: "No,
not an average; such a man would be regarded as a middle-class farmer--a rather large farmer."
And the figures which I have just obtained in a call on the national Department of Agriculture
and Commerce more than justify the reply.

Forty-six farmers out of every 100 in Japan own less than one and one quarter acres of land;
26 more out of every 100 own less than two and one half acres, and only one man in a hundred
owns as much as twenty-five acres. (In the matter of cultivation also I find that 70 per cent,
cultivate less than two and one half acres, and nearly half are tenants.)

This year the situation is even worse than usual, for disastrous floods have reduced the rice
crop, which represents one half Japan's crop values, 20 per cent, below last year's figures,
and many people will suffer.

Ordinarily, however, these little handkerchief-sized farms yield amazingly. It has been shown
by Prof. F. H. King that the fields of Japan are cultivated so intensively, fertilized so painstakingly,
and kept so continuously producing some crop, that they feed 2277 people to the square mile--21,321
square miles of cultivated fields in the main islands supporting a population of 48,542,376.
If the tilled fields of Iowa, for {22} example, supported an equal number of people per square
mile, the population so supported would be over 100,000,000. That state alone could feed the
entire population of the United States and then have an excess product left for export to other
countries! If North Carolina did as well with her cultivated land she would support 30,000,000
people, and if Mississippi's 11,875 square miles of land under cultivation supported each 2277
persons, then 27,041,375 people, or thirteen times the present population of the state, could
live off their produce!

And yet these Japanese lands have been in cultivation for unnumbered centuries. Some of them
may have been cleared when King Herod trembled from his dream of a new-born rival in Judea,
and certainly "the glory that was Greece and the grandeur that was Rome" had not faded from
the earth when some of these fields began their age-long ministry to human need. And they have
been kept fertile simply by each farmer putting back on the ground every ounce of fertility
taken from it, for commercial fertilizers were absolutely unknown until our own generation.

Of course, with a population so dense and with each man cultivating an area no larger than
a garden-patch in America, the people are poor, and the wonder is that they are able to produce
food enough to keep the country from actual want. Practically no animal meat is eaten; if we
except fish, the average American eats nearly twice as much meat in a week as the average Japanese
does in a year: to be exact, 150 pounds of meat per capita is required per year for the average
American against 1.7 pounds for the average Japanese! Many of the farmers here are too poor
even to eat a good quality of rice. Consequently Japan presents the odd phenomenon of being
at once an exporter and a large importer of rice. Poor farmers sell their good rice and buy
a poorer quality brought in from the mainland of Asia and mix it with barley for grinding.

Only about one farmer in three has a horse or an ox; in most cases all the work must be done
by hand and with crude tools. {23} It is pitiful--or rather I should say, it would be pitiful
if they did not appear so contented--to see men breaking the ground not by plowing but by digging
with kuwas: long-handled tools with blades perhaps six inches wide and two feet long. At the
Agricultural College farm in Komaba I saw about thirty Japanese weeding rice with the kama--a
tool much like an old-fashioned sickle except that the blade is straight: the right hand quickly
cut the roots of the weed or grass plant and the left hand as quickly pulled it up. With the
same sickle-like kamas about thirty other Japanese were cutting and shocking corn: they are
at least too advanced to pull fodder, I was interested to notice!

With land so scarce, it is of course necessary to keep something on the ground every growing
day from year's end to year's end. Truckers and gardeners raise three crops a year. Rice, as
a rule, is not sown as with us, but the plants are transplanted as we transplant cabbage or
tomato plants (but so close together, of course, that the ripening fields look as if they had
been sown), in order that the farmer may save the time the rice plants are getting to the transplanting
stage. That is to say, some other crop is maturing on the land while the rice plants are growing
large enough to transplant. Riding through the country almost anywhere you will notice the
tender young plants of some new crop showing between the rows of some earlier-planted crop
now maturing or newly harvested.

The crops in Japan are not very varied. Rice represents half the agricultural values. Next
to rice is the silkworm industry, and then barley, wheat, vegetables, soy beans, sweet potatoes,
and fruits. There is especial interest in fruit growing just now. Sweet potatoes grow more
luxuriantly than in any other country I have ever seen, and are much used for food. I have
seen one or two little patches of cotton, but evidently only for home spinning, although I
hear it said that in Korea, which has just been formally annexed as Japanese territory, cotton
can be profitably grown. A much {24} cultivated plant, with leaves like those of the lotus
or water-lily, is the taro, which I also saw growing in Hawaii; its roots are used for food
as potatoes are.

Every particle of fertility of every kind, as I have said, is religiously saved, and in recent
years a considerable demand for commercial fertilizers has sprung up, $8 to $10 worth per acre
being a normal application.

So much for the farming country as it has impressed me around Tokyo. A few days ago I saw a
somewhat different agricultural area--280 miles of great rice-farming land between Miyanoshita
and Kyoto. This country is different from that around Yokahoma and north of Tokyo in that it
is so much more rolling and mountainous (majestic Mount Fuji, supreme among peaks, was in sight
several hours) and greater efforts are therefore necessary to take care of the soil.

But when such effort is necessary in Japan, it is sure to be made. The population is so dense
that every one realizes the essential criminality of soil-waste, of the destruction of the
one resource which must support human life as long as the race shall last.

Much of the land is in terraces, or, perhaps I should say, tiers. That is to say, here will
be a half-acre or an acre from eighteen inches to six feet higher (all as level as a threshing-floor)
than a similar level piece adjoining. While the levelling is helpful in any case for the preservation
of fertility and the prevention of washing, the tier system is necessary in many cases on account
of the irrigation methods used in rice growing. While the lower plot is flooded for rice, upland
crops may be growing on the adjacent elevated acre or half-acre.

The hillside or mountain slopes are also cultivated to the last available foot, and in dry
seasons you may even see the men and women carrying buckets uphill to water any suffering crop.
In nearly all cases the rows are on a level. Where there was once a slanting hillside the Japanese
here dig it down or grade it, and the mountainsides are often enormous steps or {25} stairs;
one level terrace after another, each held in place by turf or rock wall.

Rice growing, as it is conducted in Japan, certainly calls for much bitter toil. The land must
be broken by hand; into the muddy, miry, water-covered rice fields the farmer-folk must wade,
to plant the rice laboriously, plant by plant; then the cultivation and harvesting is also
done by hand, and even the threshing, I understand. When we recall that the net result of all
this bitter toil is only a bare existence made increasingly hard by the steady rise in land-taxes,
and that the Japanese people know practically none of the diversions which give joy and color
to American and English country life, it is no wonder that thousands of farmers are leaving
their two and three acre plots, too small to produce a decent living for a family, to try their
fortunes in the factories and the towns. Specifically, it may be mentioned that the boys from
the farms who go into the army for the compulsory two years' service are reported as seldom
returning to the country.

True, the government is trying to help matters to some extent (though this is indeed but little)
by lending money to banks at low rates of interest with the understanding that the farmers
may then borrow from these banks at rates but little higher; and there are also in most communities,
I learn, "cooperative credit societies" (corresponding somewhat to the mutual building and
loan societies in American towns), by means of which the farmers escape the clutches of the
Shylock money-lenders who have heretofore charged as high as 20 to 30 per cent. for advances.
The Japanese farmers invest their surplus funds in these "cooperative credit societies," just
as they would in savings banks, except that in their case their savings are used solely for
helping their immediate neighbors and neighborhoods. A judicious committee passes upon each
small loan, and while the interest rates might seem high to us, we have to remember that money
everywhere here commands higher interest than in America.

{26}

I am the more interested in these "cooperative credit societies," because they seem to me to
embrace features which our American farmers would do well to adopt.

It is said that the farmers live on better food than they had twenty years ago, but I should
think that there has been little improvement in the little thatch-roofed houses in which they
live. These houses are grouped into small villages, as are the farm houses in Europe, the farmer
going out from the settlement to his fields each working day, much after the fashion of the
workers on the largest American plantations. Buildings corresponding to our American two-story
houses are almost never seen in towns here and absolutely never in farming sections, the farm
home, like the town home, usually consisting of a story and a half, with sliding walls of paper-covered
sash between the rooms, a sort of box for the fire on which the meals are cooked, and no chimney--little
better, though much cleaner, than the negro cabins in the South. In winter the people nearly
freeze, or would but for the fact that the men put on heavy woolens, and the women pile on
cotton padding until they look almost like walking feather beds.

True as are the things that I have said in this article, I fear that my average reader would
get a very gloomy and false conception of Japanese farm life if I should stop here. The truth
is that, so far as my observation goes, I have seen nothing to indicate that the rural population
of Japan is not now as happy as the rural population in America. If their possessions are few,
so are their wants. In fact. Dr. Juichi Soyeda, one of the country's leading men, in talking
to me, expressed a doubt as to whether the new civilization of Japan will really produce greater
average happiness than the old rural seclusion and isolation (a doubt, however, which I do
not share). "Our farm people," he said, "are hard-working, frugal, honest, cheerful, and while
their possessions are small, there is little actual want among them. A greater {27} number
than in most other countries are home-owners, and, altogether, they form the backbone of an
empire."

Doctor Soyeda went on to give a noteworthy illustration of the affection of the people for
their home farms. "The Japanese," he said, "have a term of contempt for the man who sells an
old homestead." There is no English word equivalent to it, but it means "a seller of the ancestral
land," and to say it of a man is almost equivalent to reflecting upon his character or honor!
I wish that we might develop in America such a spirit of affection for our farm homes.

I wish, too, that we might develop the Japanese love of the beautiful in nature. No matter
how small and cramped the yard about the tiny home here, you are almost sure to find the beauty
of shrub and tree and neatly trimmed hedge, and in Tokyo the whole population looks forward
with connoisseur-like enthusiasm to the season for wistaria blooms in earliest spring, to the
cherry blossom season in April, to lotus-time in mid-summer, and to the chrysanthemum shows
in the fall. The fame of Tokyo's cherry blossoms has already gone around the world, and thus
they not only add to the pleasure of its citizens, but give the city a distinction of no small
financial advantage as well.

Why may not our civic improvement associations, women's clubs, etc., get an idea here for our
American towns? A long avenue of beautiful trees along a road or street, even if trees without
blossoms, would give distinction to any small village or to any farm. Every one who has been
to Europe will recall the long lines of Lombardy poplars that make the fair vision of many
French roads linger long in the memory, and I can never forget the magnificent avenue of cryptomerias--gigantic
in size, straight as ship masts, fair as the cedars of Lebanon--that line the road leading
to the great Shogun Iyeyasu's tomb in Nikko.

Lastly, these people are fired by the thought that a better day is coming. Their children are
going to school, as the {28} older folk could not, and as a Japanese editor said to me this week:

"Every boy in the empire believes he may some day become Premier!"

What is the lesson of it all? Is it not just this: That we in America should feel highly favored
in that we have such magnificent resources, and yet as sharply rebuked in that we are doing
so little with them.

And most of all, is there not need for us to emulate the broad patriotism and the heroic spirit
of self-sacrifice in which the Land of the Rising Sun, in spite of dire poverty, is providing
ten-months schools for every boy and girl in all its borders? And, indeed, how otherwise can
we make sure, before it is too late, that our American farm boys and girls will not be outdistanced
in twentieth-century achievement by the children of a people our fathers regarded only as hopeless
"heathen?"

Tokyo, Japan.

{29}

IV

"WELFARE WORK" IN JAPANESE FACTORIES

The obvious truth is that the agricultural population of Japan is too congested. It is a physical
impossibility for a people to live in genuine comfort on such small pocket-handkerchief pieces
of land, even though their standards do not call for shoes or tables, beds or chairs, Western
houses or Western clothing. The almost exclusive use of hand labor, too, is uneconomic, seen
from a large standpoint, and it would seem that in future farmers must combine, as they are
already beginning to do, in order to purchase horses and horse-power tools to be used in common
by a number of farmers. In the Tokyo Seed, Plant & Implement Company store the other day I
saw a number of widely advertised American tools, and the manager told me the demand for them
is increasing.

Thus with a smaller number of men required to produce the nation's food, a larger number may
engage in manufacturing, and gradually the same principle of division of labor which has brought
Western people to high standards of living, comfort, and earning power will produce much the
same result in Japan. Already wages, astonishingly low as they are to-day to an ordinary American,
have increased 40 per cent, in the last eight or ten years, this increase being partly due
to the general cheapening of money the world over, and partly also to the increased efficiency
of the average laborer.

Unfortunately, however, Japan is not content to rely upon natural law for the development of
its manufactures. Adam {30} Smith said in his "Wealth of Nations" (published the year of our
American Declaration of Independence), that the policy of all European nations since the downfall
of the Roman Empire had been to help manufacturing, the industry of the towns, rather than
agriculture, the industry of the country--a policy in which America later imitated Europe.
Japan now follows suit. For a long time the government has paid enormous subsidies to shipbuilding
and manufacturing corporations, and now a high tariff has been enacted, which will still further
increase the cost of living for the agricultural classes, comprising, as they do, two thirds
of the country's population.

"'With your cheap labor and all the colossal Oriental market right at your door," I said to
Editor Shihotsu of the Kokumin Shimbun a day or two ago, "what excuse is there for further
dependence on the government? What can be the effect of your new tariff except to increase
the burdens of the farmer for the benefit of the manufacturer?" And while defending the policy,
he admitted that I had stated the practical effect of the policy. "They are domestic consumption
duties," was his phrase; and Count Okuma, one of the empire's ablest men, once Minister of
Agriculture, has also pointed out how injuriously the new law will affect the masses of the people.

"Some would argue," he said in a speech at Osaka, "that the duties are paid by the country
from which the goods are imported. That this is not the case is at once seen by the fact that
an increase in duty means a rise in the price of an article in the country imposing the duty,
and this to the actual consumer often amounts to more than the rise in the duty. In these cases
consumers pay the duty themselves; and the customs revenues, so far from being a national asset,
are merely another form of taxation paid by the people." And the masses in Japan, already staggering
under the enormous burden of an average tax amounting to 32 per cent, of their earnings (on
account of their wars with China and Russia and their enormous army and navy expenditure),
are ill-prepared to stand further {31} taxation for the benefit of special interests. On the
whole, there seems to have been much truth in what a recent authority said on this subject:

  "The Japanese manufacturers are concerned only to make monopoly
  profits out of the consumer. If they can do that, they will not
  worry about foreign markets, from which, in fact, their policy is
  bound more and more to exclude them."

In any case, manufacturing in Japan is bound to increase, but it ought not to increase through
unjust oppression of agriculture or at the expense of the physical stamina of the race. This
fact is now winning recognition not only from the nation at large, but from public-spirited
manufacturers as well.

Some very notable evidence upon this point came to me Wednesday when influential friends secured
special permission, not often granted to strangers, for me to visit the great Kanegafuchi Cotton
Spinning Company's plant near Tokyo--the great surprise being not that I succeeded in getting
permission to visit this famous factory, though that was partly surprising, but in what I saw
on the visit.

Much has been said and written as to the utterly deplorable condition of Japanese factory workers,
and I was quite prepared for sights that would outrage my feelings of humanity. Imagine my
surprise, therefore, when I found the manager making a hobby of "welfare work" for his operatives
and with a system of such work modelled after the Krupp system in Germany, the best in the
world! And as the Kanegafuchi Company has seventeen factories in all, representing several
cities and aggregating over 300,000 spindles, being one of the most famous industries of Japan,
it will be seen that its example is by no means without significance.

The Kanegafuchi's Tokyo factories alone employ 3500 operatives, and they are cleaner, I should
say, than most of our stores and offices. The same thing is true of their great hospital and
boarding-house, and the dining-room is also {32} surprisingly clean and well kept. Of the welfare
work proper a whole article could be written. Each operative pays 3 per cent, of his or her
wages (most operatives are women) into a common insurance and pension fund, and the company,
out of its earnings, pays into the fund an equal amount. From this a pension is given the family
of any employee who dies, while if an operative gets sick or is injured, a committee, assisted
by Director Fuji, allows a suitable pension until recovery. In the case, however, of long-standing
disease or disability, help is given, after ten years, from still another fund. This employees'
pension fund now amounts to $143,000, while other funds given partly or wholly by the company
include $30,000 for operatives' sanitary fund, $112,000 in a fund "for promoting operatives'
welfare," and $15,000 for erecting an operatives' sanatorium. The company also has a savings
department, paying 10 per cent, on long-time deposits made by employees. There is an excellent
theatre and dance hall at the Tokyo plant, and I suppose at the other branches also, and five
physicians are regularly employed to look after the health of operatives.

While the hours of labor in Japan generally are inexcusably long and, as a rule, only two rest
days a month are allowed, the Kanegafuchi Company observes the Biblical seventh-day rest with
profitable results. The work hours are long yet, it is true, ten hours having been the rule
up to October 1, and now nine and one half hours. The ten hours this summer embraced the time
from 6 to 6, with a half hour's rest from 9 to 9:30, one hour from 11:30 to 12:30, and another
half hour from 3 to 3:30; a system of halfway rests not common in America, I believe.

Conditions at Kanegafuchi, of course, are not ideal, nor would I hold them up as a general
model for American mills. Rather should America ask: "If Japan in a primitive stage of industrial
evolution is doing so much, how much more ought we to do?" More noteworthy still is the fact
that the sentiment of the country is loudly and insistently demanding a law {33} to stop the
evils of child labor and night work for women, which, on the whole, are undoubtedly bad--very
bad. The Kanegafuchi welfare work is exceptional, but it is in line with the new spirit of
the people.

That Japan with its factory system not yet extensive, its people used to a struggle for existence
tenfold harder than ours, and with a population comprising only the wealthy or capitalist class--that
under such conditions, these Buddhist Japanese should still make effective demand for adequate
factory labor legislation is enough to put to shame many a Christian state in which our voters
still permit conditions that reproach our boasted chivalry and humanity. Perhaps all the changes
needed cannot be made at once without injury to manufacturing interests, but in that case the
law should at least require a gradual and steady approach to model conditions--a distinct step
forward each six months until at the end of three years, or five years at longest, every state
should have a law as good as that of Massachusetts.

Tokyo, Japan.

{34}

V

DOES JAPANESE COMPETITION MENACE THE WHITE MAN'S TRADE?

I

With all the markets of the Orient right at Japan's doors and labor to be had for a mere song--four
fifths of her cotton-factory workers, girls and women averaging 13-1/2 cents a day, and the
male labor averaging only 22 cents--it is simply useless for Europe and America to attempt
to compete with her in any line she chooses to monopolize. Now that she has recovered from
her wars, she will doubtless forge to the front as dramatically as an industrial power as she
has already done as a military and maritime power, while other nations, helpless in competition,
must simply surrender to the Mikado-land the lion's share of Asiatic trade--the richest prize
of twentieth-century commerce.

In some such strain as this prophets of evil among English and American manufacturers have
talked for several years. For the last few months, professing to see in Japan's adoption of
a high protective tariff partial confirmation of their predictions, they have assumed added
authority. Their arguments, too, are so plausible and the facts as to Japan's low wage scale
so patent that the world has become acutely interested in the matter. I account myself especially
fortunate, therefore, in having been able to spend several weeks under peculiarly favorable
circumstances in a first-hand study of Japanese industrial {35} conditions. I have been in
great factories and business offices; I have talked with both Japanese and foreign manufacturers
who employ laborers by the thousand; I have had the views of the most distinguished financial
leaders of the empire as well as of the great captains of industry; I have talked with several
men who have served in the Emperor's cabinet, including one who has stood next to the Mikado
himself in power; and at the same time I have taken pains to get the views of English and American
consular officials, commercial attaches and travelers, and of newspaper men both foreign and
native.

And yet after having seen the big factories and the little factory-workers in Tokyo and Osaka,
after having listened to the most ambitious of Japan's industrial leaders, I shall leave the
country convinced of the folly of the talk that white labor cannot compete with Japanese labor.
I believe indeed that the outlook is encouraging for manufacturing in the Mikado's empire,
but I do not believe that this development is to be regarded as a menace to English or American
industry. Any view to the contrary, it seems to me, must be based upon a radical misconception
of conditions as they are.

In the very outset, the assumed parallel between Japan's rise as a military power and her predicted
rise as an industrial power should be branded as the groundless non sequitur that it is. "All
our present has its roots in the past," as my first Japanese acquaintance said to me, and we
ignore fundamental facts when we forget that for centuries unnumbered Japan existed for the
soldier, as the rosebush for the blossom. The man of martial courage was the goal of all her
striving, the end of all her travail. Society was a military aristocracy, the Samurai the privileged
class. And at the same time commerce was despised as dishonorable and industry merely tolerated
as a necessary evil. In the Japan of Yalu, Liao-yang, and Mukden we have no modern Minerva
springing full-armed from the head of Jove, but rather an unrecognized Ulysses {36} of ancient
skill surprising onlookers merely ignorant of the long record of his prowess. Viewed from the
same historical standpoint, however, industrial Japan is a mere learner, unskilled, with the
long and weary price of victory yet to pay.

In the race she has to run, moreover, the Mikado-land has no such advantages as many of our
people have been led to believe. In America it has long been my conviction that cheap labor
is never cheap; that so-called "cheap labor" is a curse to any community--not because it is
cheap but because it is inefficient. The so-called cheap negro labor in the South, for example,
I have come to regard as perhaps the dearest on the continent. Here in Japan, however, I was
quite prepared to find that this theory would not hold good. By reason of conditions in a primitive
stage of industrial organization, I thought that I might find cheap labor with all the advantages,
in so far as there are any, and few of the disadvantages, encountered elsewhere. But it is
not so. An American factory owner in Osaka, summing up his Job's trials with raw Japanese labor,
used exactly my own phrase in a newspaper article a few days ago, "Cheap labor is never cheap."
And all my investigations have convinced me that the remark is as applicable in Japan as it
is in America or England.

The per capita wages of Japanese laborers here are, of course, amazingly low. The latest 1910
statistics, as furnished by the Department of Finance, indicate a daily wage (American money)
of 40 cents for carpenters, 31-1/2 cents for shoemakers, 34 cents for blacksmiths, 25-1/2 cents
for compositors, 19-1/2 cents for male farm laborers, and 22 cents for male weavers, and 12
cents for female. In the cotton factories I visited, those of the better sort, the wages run
from 5 cents a day for the youngest children to 25 cents a day for good women workers. In a
mousselaine mill I was told that the average wages were 22-1/2 cents, ranging from 10 cents
to a maximum of 50 cents for the most skilled employees. And this, be it remembered, was {37}
for eleven hours' work and in a factory requiring a higher grade of efficiency than the average.

But in spite of the fact that such figures as these were well known to him, it was my host
in the first Japanese house to which I was invited--one of the Emperor's privy councillors,
and a man of much travel and culture who had studied commercial conditions at home and abroad
rather profoundly--who expressed the conclusion that Japanese factory labor when reduced to
terms of efficiency is not greatly cheaper than European, an opinion which has since grown
rather trite in view of the number of times that I have heard it. "In the old handicrafts and
family industries to which our people have been accustomed," my host declared, "we can beat
the world, but the moment we turn to modern industrial machinery on a large scale the newness
of our endeavor tells against us in a hundred hindering ways. Numbers of times I have sought
to work out some industrial policy which had succeeded, and could not but have succeeded, in
England, Germany, or America, only to meet general failure here because of the unconsidered
elements of a different environment, a totally different stage of industrial evolution. Warriors
from the beginning and with a record for continuous government unsurpassed by any European
country, our political and military achievements are but the fruitage of our long history,
but in industry we must simply wait through patient generations to reach the stage represented
by the Englishman, Irishman, or German, who takes to machinery as if by instinct."

All my investigations since have confirmed the philosophy of this distinguished Japanese whose
name, if I should mention it, would be familiar to many in America and England. In the Tokyo
branch of the Kanegafuchi Spinning Company (a company which controls 300,000 spindles) the
director, speaking from the experience of one of the greatest and best conducted industries
in Japan, declared: "Your skilled factory laborers in America or England will work four sides
of a ring frame; our unskilled laborer may work only one." A young Englishman in another factory
declared: "It takes five men here to do work that I and my mate would take care of at home."
An American vice-consul told me that it takes three or four times as much Japanese as foreign
labor to look after an equal number of looms. A Japanese expert just back from Europe declared
recently that "Lancashire labor is more expensive than ours, but really cheaper." Similarly
the Tokyo correspondent of the London Times summing up an eight-column review of Japanese industry,
observed: "If we go to the bottom of the question and consider what is being paid as wages
and what is being obtained as the product of labor in Japan, we may find that Japanese labor
is not cheaper than in other countries."

{38}

II

My own conviction is that in actual output the Japanese labor is somewhat cheaper than American
or European labor, but not greatly so, and that even this margin of excess in comparative cheapness
represents mainly a blood-tax on the lives and energies of the Japanese people, the result
of having no legislation to restrain the ruinous overwork of women and little children--a grievous
debt which the nation must pay at the expense of its own stamina and which the manufacturers
must also pay in part through the failure to develop experienced and able-bodied laborers.
The latest "Japan Year Book" expresses the view that "in per capita output two or three skilled
Japanese workers correspond to one foreign," but under present conditions the difficulty here
is to find the skilled workers at all. When Mr. Oka, of the Department of Commerce and Agriculture,
told me that the average Japanese factory hand remains in the business less than two years,
I was astonished, but inquiry from original sources confirmed the view. With the best system
of welfare work in the empire, the Kanegafuchi Company keeps its laborers two and a half {39}
to three years, but in a mill in Osaka of the better sort, employing 2500 hands, I was told
that only 20 per cent, had been at work as long as three years. Under such conditions, the
majority of the operatives at any time must be in a stage of deplorable inexperience, and it
is no wonder that the "Year Book" just quoted goes on to confess that "one serious defect of
the production is lack of uniformity in quality--attributed to unskilled labor and overwork
of machinery."

The explanation of this situation, of course, is largely to be found in the fact that Japanese
industries are women's industries--there being seven times as large a proportion of women to
men, the Department of Commerce informs me, as in European and American manufacturing. These
women workers are mostly from the country. Their purpose is only to work two or three years
before getting married, and thousands of them, called home to marry the husbands their parents
have selected, or else giving way physically under strain, quit work before their contracts
expire. "We have almost no factory laborers who look on the work as a life business," was an
expression often repeated to me.

Not only in the mills, but in numerous other lines of work, have I seen illustrations of the
primitive stage of Japan's industrial efficiency. As a concrete illustration I wish I might
pass to each reader the box of Kobe-made matches on the table before me (for match-making of
this sort is an important industry here, as well as the sort conducted through matrimonial
middlemen without waiting for the aid or consent of either of the parties involved). I have
never in my life seen such a box of matches in America. Not in a hundred boxes at home would
you find so many splinters without heads, so many defective matches. And in turning out the
boxes themselves, I am told that it takes five or six hands to equal the product of one skilled
foreign laborer. "It takes two or three Japanese servants to do the work of one white servant"
is the general verdict of housekeepers, while it has also been brought to my {40} attention
that in shops two or three clerks are required to do the work of one at home. A Japanese newspaper
man (his paper is printed in English) tells me that linotype compositors set only half as many
ems per hour as in America. In short, the general verdict as I have found it is indicated by
what I have written, and the most enthusiastic advocate of Japanese cheap labor, the captain
of the steamer on which I came from America, rather spoiled his enthusiasm for getting his
ship coaled at Nagasaki for 7-1/2 cents a ton, by acknowledging that if it rained he should
have to keep his ship waiting a day to get sufficient hands.

Moreover, while the Japanese factory workers are forced into longer hours than labor anywhere
else--eleven hours at night this week, eleven hours in the day next week--I am convinced that
the people as a whole are more than ordinarily averse to steady, hard, uninterrupted toil.
"We have a streak of the Malay in us," as a Japanese professor said to me, "and we like to
idle now and then. The truth is our people are not workers; they are artists, and artists must
not be hurried." Certainly in the hurried production of the factory the Japanese artistic taste
seems to break down almost beyond redemption, and the people seem unable to carry their habits
of neatness and carefulness into the new environment of European machinery. "Take the Tokyo
street cars," said an ex-cabinet officer to me; "the wheels are seldom or never cleaned or
oiled, and are half eaten by rust." The railroads are but poorly kept up; the telephones exhaust
your patience; while in the case of telegraphing, your exasperation is likely to lose itself
in amazed amusement. A few days ago, for example, I sent a telegram from Osaka to Kobe, took
my rickshaw across town, waited for a slow train to start, and then reached Kobe and the street
destination of my message before it did.

In considering the failure of Japanese labor to bring forth a satisfactory output, however,
one thing more should be said, and that is that we should not put the blame wholly on the {41}
wage-earner. Not a small proportion of the responsibility lies at the door of inexpert managers.
The family system of production has not only been the rule for generations with that minority
of the people not engaged in farming, but it is still the dominant type of Japanese industry,
and it will take time even to provide opportunities for training a sufficient corps of superintendents
in the larger lines of production.

In further illustration of my argument that cheap labor is not proving so abnormally profitable,
I may question whether Japanese factories have paid as good dividends, in proportion to prevailing
rates of interest on money, as factories in England and America. Baron Shibusawa, the dean
of Japanese financiers and one of the pioneers in cotton manufacturing, is my authority for
the statement that 12 per cent, would be a rather high estimate of the average rate of dividend,
while figures furnished by the Department of Finance show that for ten years the average rate
of interest on loans has been 11.25 per cent.

The fact that Western ideas as to Japan's recent industrial advance have been greatly exaggerated
may also be demonstrated just here. While the latest government figures show that in twelve
years the number of female factory operatives increased from 261,218 to 400,925 and male factory
operatives from 173,614 to 248,251, it is plain that a manufacturing population of 649,000
in a country of 50,000,000 souls is small, and the actual progress has not been so great as
the relative figures would indicate. Moreover, many so-called "factories" employ less than
ten persons and would not be called factories at all in England or America. The absence of
iron deposits is a great handicap, the one steel foundry being operated by the government at
a heavy loss, and in cotton manufacturing, where "cheap labor" is supposed to be most advantageous,
no very remarkable advance has been made in the last decade. From 1899 to 1909 English manufacturers
so increased their trade that in the latter year they imported $222 worth of raw {42} cotton
for every $100 worth imported ten years before, while Japan in 1909 imported only $177 worth
for each $100 worth a decade previous--though of course she made this cotton into higher grade
products.

III

It must also be remembered that the wages of labor in Japan are steadily increasing and will
continue to increase. More significant than the fact of the low cost per day, to which I have
already given attention, is the fact that these wages represent an average increase per trade
of 40 per cent, above the wages eight years previous. The new 1910 "Financial and Economic
Annual" shows the rate of wages of forty-six classes of labor for a period of eight years.
For not one line of labor is a decrease of wages shown, and for only two an increase of less
than 30 per cent.; sixteen show increases between 30 and 40 per cent., seventeen between 40
and 50 per cent., eight from 50 to 60 per cent., three from 60 to 70 per cent., while significantly
enough the greatest increase, 81 per cent., is for female servants, a fact largely due to factory
competition. In Osaka the British vice-consul gave me the figures for the latest three-year
period for which figures have been published, indicating in these thirty-six months a 30 per
cent. gain in the wages of men in the factories and a 25 per cent, gain in the wages of women.

Of no small significance in any study of Japanese industry must also be the fact that there
are in Japan proper a full half million fewer women than men (1910 figures: men, 25,639,581;
women, 25,112,338)--a condition the reverse of that obtaining in almost every other country.
Now the young Japanese are a very home-loving folk, and even if they were not, almost all Shinto
parents, realizing the paramount importance of having descendants to worship their spirits,
favor and arrange early marriages for their sons. And what with this competition for {43} wives,
the undiminished demand for female servants, and a half million fewer women than men to draw
from, the outlook for any great expansion of manufacturing based on woman labor is not very
bright. Moreover, with Mrs. Housekeeper increasing her frantic bids for servants 81 per cent,
in eight years, and still mourning that they are not to be had, it is plain that the manufacturer
has serious competition from this quarter, to say nothing of the further fact that the Japanese
girls are for the first time becoming well educated and are therefore likely to be in steadily
increasing demand as office-workers. Upon this general subject the head of one of Osaka's leading
factories said to me: "I am now employing 2500 women, but if I wished to enlarge my mill at
once and employ 5000, it would be impossible for me to get the labor, though I might increase
to this figure by adding a few hundred each year for several years."

Unquestionably, too, shorter hours, less night work, weekly holidays, and better sanitary conditions
must be adopted by most manufacturers if they are to continue to get labor. The Kobe Chronicle
quotes Mr. Kudota, of the Sanitary Bureau, as saying that "most of the women workers are compelled
to leave the factories on account of their constitutions being wrecked" after two or three
years of night work, consumption numbering its victims among them by the thousands. Either
the mills must give better food and lodging than they now provide or else they must pay higher
wages directly which will enable the laborers to make better provision for themselves.

Yet another reason why wages must continue to advance is the steady increase in cost of living,
due partly to the higher standard developed through education and contact with Western civilization,
but perhaps even more largely to the fearful burden of taxation under which the people are
staggering. A usual estimate of the tax rate is 30 per cent. of one's income, while Mr. Wakatsuki,
late Japanese Financial Commissioner to London, is quoted as authority for the statement {44}
that the people now pay in direct and indirect taxes, 35 per cent, of their incomes. And I
doubt whether even this estimate includes the increased amounts that citizens are forced to
pay for salt and tobacco as a result of the government monopoly in these products, or the greatly
increased prices of sugar resulting from the government's paternalistic efforts to guarantee
prosperity to sugar manufacturers in Formosa.

IV

Higher still, and higher far than anything the nation has ever yet known, must go the cost
of living under the new tariff law. From a British textile representative I learned the other
day that a grade of English woollens largely used by the Japanese for underwear will cost over
one third more under the new tariff, while the increased duty on certain other lines of goods
is indicated by the table herewith:

  PERCENTAGE OF DUTY TO COST OF ARTICLE

                 Old Tariff New Tariff

  Printed goods       3        22

  White lawns        10        47

  Shirtings          10        39

  Cotton Italians     3        35

  Poplins             8        19

  Brocades           10        22

Neither a nation nor an individual can lift itself by its bootstraps. The majority of the thoughtful
people in the empire seem to me to realize even now that through the new tariff Japanese industry,
as a whole, is likely to lose much more by lessened ability to compete in foreign markets than
it will gain by shackled competition in the home markets. Farseeing old Count Okuma, once Premier,
and one of the empire's Elder Statesmen, seemed to realize this more fully than any other man
I have seen. "Within two or three years from the time the new law goes into force," he declared,
"I am {45} confident that its injurious effects will be so apparent that the people will force
its repeal. With our heavy taxes the margin of wages left for comfort is already small, and
with the cost of living further increased by the new tariff, wages must inevitably advance.
This will increase the cost of our manufactured products, now exported mostly to China, India,
and other countries requiring cheap or low-grade goods, and where we must face the competition
of the foremost industrial nations of the world. As our cost of production increases, our competition
with Europe will become steadily more difficult and a decrease in our exports will surely follow.
It is folly for one small island to try to produce everything it needs. The tariff on iron,
for example, can only hamper every new industry by increasing the cost of machinery, and must
especially hinder navigation and shipbuilding, in which we have made such progress." Not a
few of the country's foremost vernacular dailies are as outspoken as Count Okuma on this point,
and the Kobe Chronicle declares that, with diminished exports to Japan, "British manufacturers
will find compensation in the lessened ability of the Japanese to compete in China; and Japan
will find that she has raised prices against herself and damaged her own efficiency."

That such will be the net result of Japan's new policy seems to me to admit of no question.
Unfortunately, certain special lines of British and American manufacture may suffer, but, on
the whole, what the white man's trade loses in Japan will be recompensed for in China and India.
Even after Japan's adoption of the moderately protective tariff of 1899 her export of yarns
to China--in the much discussed "market right at her doors"--dropped from a product of 340,000
bales to a recent average of 250,000 bales. From 1899 to 1908, according to the latest published
government figures, the number of employees in Japanese cotton factories increased only 240--one
third of 1 per cent.--or from 73,985 to 74,225, to be exact, while I have already alluded to
the figures showing the {46} comparative English and Japanese imports of raw cotton from 1890
to 1909 as furnished me by Mr. Robert Young, of Kobe, Japan in this period going from $30,000,000
to $54,000,000, or 77 per cent., while England's advance was from $135,000,000 to $300,000,000,
or 122 per cent. The increase in England's case, of course, was largely, and in Japan's case
almost wholly, due to the increased price of the cotton itself, but the figures are none the
less useful for the purposes of comparison.

In the frequent attempts of the Japanese Government to stimulate special industries by subsidies
and special privileges there is, it seems to me, equally as little danger to the trade of Europe
and America in general (though here, too, special industries may suffer now and then), because
Japan is in this way simply handicapping herself for effective industrial growth. Just at this
writing we have an illustration in the case of the Formosan sugar subsidy which seems to have
developed into a veritable Frankenstein; or, to use a homelier figure, the government seems
to be in the position of the man who had the bear by the tail, with equal danger in holding
on or letting go. Already, as a result of the system of subsidies, bounties and special privileges,
individual initiative has been discouraged, a dangerous and corrupting alliance of government
with business developed, public morals debased (as was strikingly brought out in the Dai Nippon
sugar scandal), and the people, as Mr. Sasano, of the Foreign Department, complains, now "rely
on the help of the government on all occasions." On the same point the Tokyo Keizai declares
that "the habit of looking to the government for assistance in all and everything, oblivious
of independent enterprise . . . has now grown to the chronic stage, and unless it is cured
the health and vitality of the nation will ultimately be sapped and undermined."

As for increasing complaints of "low commercial morality" brought against Japanese merchants,
that is not a matter of concern in this discussion, except in so far as it may prove a form
of Japanese commercial suicide. But to one who holds {47} the view, as I do, that the community
of nations is enriched by every worthy industrial and moral advance on the part of any nation,
it is gratifying to find the general alarm over the present undoubtedly serious conditions,
and it is to be hoped that the efforts of the authorities will result in an early change to
better methods.

V

Such is a brief review of the salient features of present-day Japanese industry, and in no
point do I find any material menace to the general well-being of American and European trade.
It is my opinion that the Japanese will steadily develop industrial efficiency, but that in
the future no more than in the present will Japan menace European and American industry (unless
she is permitted to take unfair advantages in Manchuria, Korea, etc.), for just in proportion
as efficiency increases, just in the same proportion, broadly speaking, wages and standards
of living will advance. The three--efficiency, wages, cost of living--seem destined to go hand
in hand, and this has certainly been the experience thus far. And whatever loss we may suffer
by reason of Japan gradually supplanting us in certain cruder forms of production should be
abundantly compensated for in the better market for our own higher-grade goods that we shall
find among a people of increasing wealth and steadily advancing standards of living.

In any fair contest for the world's trade there seems little reason to fear any disastrous
competition from Japan. Perhaps she has been allowed to make the contest unfair in Manchuria
or elsewhere, but that, as Mr. Kipling would say, is another story.

Kobe, Japan.

{48}

VI

BUDDHISM, SHINTOISM, AND CHRISTIANITY IN JAPAN

One of the most fascinating places in all Japan is Kyoto, the old capital of the empire, and
one of its most picturesque and historic cities. Without great factories such as Osaka boasts
of, without the political importance of Tokyo, and without shipping advantages such as have
made Kobe and Yokahoma famous, Kyoto is noted rather for conserving the life of old Japan.
Here are the family industries, the handicrafts, and a hundred little arts in which the Land
of the Rising Sun excels.

Little themselves in stature, the people of Japan are best in dealing with little things requiring
daintiness, finish, and artistic taste. Some one has said that their art is "great in little
things and little in great things," and unlike many epigrams, it is as true as it is terse.

A traveler gets the impression that most of their shops, or "stores," as we say in America,
are for selling bric-a-brac, toys, lacquer ware, bronzes, or ornamental things of one kind
or another; but perhaps this is largely because they give an artistic or ornamental appearance
to a thousand utensils and household articles which in America would be raw and plain in their
obvious practicality. The room in which I write is a fine illustration of this: finished in
natural, unpainted woods, entirely without "fussiness" or show, and yet with certain touches
and bits of wood carving that make it a work of art.

Like most old Japanese cities, Kyoto is proud of its temples, Buddhist and Shinto. And perhaps
I should explain just here the difference between these two faiths that were long merged into
one, but have been dissociated since the restoration of the Emperor to his old-time powers
forty years ago. Shinto is the ancient Japanese system of ancestor-worship, with its doctrine
of the divine descent of the Mikado from the Sun-goddess and its requirement that every faithful
adherent make daily offerings to the spirits of the family's ancestors. With the future life
or with moral precepts for this life it does not concern itself. "Obey the Emperor and follow
your own instincts," is the gist of the Shinto religion, in so far as it may be called a religion
at all: the tendency is to consider it only a form of patriotism and not a religion.

Buddhism, on the other hand, is an elaborate system of theology comprising a great variety
of creeds, and insisting upon much ecclesiastical form and ceremony, however little it may
have to do with practical morals. "The fact is, we Japanese have never gotten our morals from
our religion," said one quasi-Buddhist newspaper man to me in Tokyo. "What moral ideas we have
came neither from Shintoism nor Buddhism, but largely from Confucius and the Chinese classics."

Buddhism as it left India may have been a rather exalted religious theory, but if so, then
in Japan it has certainly {50} degenerated into a shameless mockery of its former self. To
read Sir Edwin Arnold's glorification of theoretical Buddhism in his "Light of Asia," and then
see practical Buddhism in Japan with all its superstitions and idolatries, is very much like
hearing bewitched Titania's praise of her lover's beauty and then turning to see the long ears
and hairy features of the ass that he has become.

Nor is it without significance that Sir Edwin Arnold himself coming to Buddhist Japan dropped
into open and flagrant immoralities such as a Christian community would never have tolerated,
while the foremost American-bred apologists for Buddhism here have been but little better.
One of the greatest and wealthiest temples in Kyoto is more notorious right now for the vices
of its sacred (?) officials than for any virtues in its creed, and one of the high priests,
like the Emperor himself, has a dozen or more women in his household. Some Buddhists are making
an earnest effort to bring about at least an outward reformation of their organization, but
the difficulties are such as to make the success of the undertaking very improbable. With the
usual Japanese quality of imitativeness they have started "Young Men's Buddhist Associations,"
"Sunday schools," etc., and are also beginning to follow the example set by the Christians
of participating in philanthropic and charitable work. In the Buddhist service I attended last
Sunday the gorgeously robed priest sat on a raised altar in the centre of the room, with other
priests ranged about him, and the general service, as usual, was much as if they had copied
the Catholic ritual.

After the Buddhist ceremonies, I went to the Christian service at the Congregational School,
or Doshisha, where the sound of the American-born minister's voice was punctuated by the street
sounds of whirring rickshaw wheels and the noisy getas of passing Buddhists, while outside
the window I could see the bamboo trees and the now familiar red disk and white border of the
Mikado's flag. Prayer was offered for {51} "the President of the United States, the King of
Great Britain, the Emperor of Germany, and the Emperor of Japan."

At night I was even more interested, even though I could not understand a word, in a native
Japanese service I attended for half an hour. Although there was a downpour of rain the chapel
was comfortably filled and the faces of the worshippers, I thought, were of more than ordinary
intelligence and promise, while their sincerity is illustrated by the fact that numbers of
the women Christians are actually depriving themselves of suitable food in order to give money
for erecting a larger church building.

The next evening I took tea with a missionary who has in his home one of the public notices
(dated March, 1868,) and common throughout the empire forty odd years ago, prohibiting Christianity,
the ancient penalty being nothing less than death itself. The explanation of this notice is
found in a bit of history. Three hundred and sixty years ago the Catholics came here, started
missions, and made many converts among the lords or daimyios, who ordered their followers also
to become Catholics, with the result that by the time of the first English settlement at Jamestown,
in 1607, there were from 600,000 to 1,000,000 Christians, nominal and actual, away over here
in Japan. Seven years later, however, government persecution began, Christianity was put under
the ban, and so remained until eight years after our Civil War ended. Many Christians suffered
martyrdom for their faith in this long period; and a few who escaped detection even secretly
handed their faith down from father to son through all the long generations until tolerance
came again.

Dr. A. D. Hail, of Osaka, tells me that even as late as 1885 an old man from the "backwoods,"
as we should say, came to a village where Dr. Hail's brother was a missionary, discovered for
the first time that a man might be a Christian without being punished, and then confessed that
each day he had worshipped secretly at a little Catholic shrine hidden in {52} his wall, as
his father and his father's father had done before him.

As another illustration of the changed attitude toward Christianity, I may mention that a Japanese
Buddhist once came to Doctor Hail's services armed with a dagger to kill the preacher, but
had his attention caught by the sermon while waiting his chance and is now a missionary himself!

Perhaps in no other respect is Christianity working a greater change than in the general estimate
of woman, although this is an objection the natives openly urge against Christianity. Just
as in any conflict of interest the family in Japan has been everything and the individual nothing,
so in every disagreement between husband and wife his opinions count for everything, hers for
nothing. The orthodox and traditional Japanese view as to a woman's place has been very accurately
and none too strongly set forth by the celebrated Japanese moralist, Kaibarra, writing on "The
Whole Duty of Woman":

  "The great lifelong duty of a woman is obedience. . . . Should her
  husband be roused at any time to anger, she must obey him with fear
  and trembling, and never set herself up against him in anger and
  forwardness.

{53}

  This gigantic figure of Buddha (a man's head would barely reach the
  statue's feet) singularly expresses the spirit of serene
  contemplation for which the Buddhist religion stands; is indeed,
  hauntingly suggestive of that dreamy Nirvana which it teaches is the
  goal of existence. There is perhaps no finer piece of statuary in
  the East than this.

{54}

  The favorite occupation is smoking, but in the lower picture three
  men together are managing to operate one spade. One man rams it into
  the ground, and the other two (by means of ropes attached) jerk out
  the shovelful of earth!

{52 continued}

The wife of the missionary I visited in Osaka told me one or two amusing incidents--amusing
in one aspect and pathetic in another--that are of interest in this connection. A Japanese
member of her church declared: No, no, Mrs. {55} "Hail, you can't ever make me believe that
my wife is as good as I am!" On another occasion she was teaching a Sunday-school class concerning
the woman of Samaria, and asked: "Why did Jesus ask the woman to call her husband?" And the
Japanese answer was: "Because he was going to talk on intellectual things and she needed some
man to help her understand!"

Dr. Sidney Gulick, with whom I had tea in Kyoto, tells of tying his wife's shoes on the street,
on one occasion, only to find the Japanese amazed that a man should so humble himself. His
wife's taking his arm in walking was also regarded as the height of impropriety!

No religion of the Far East has ever recognized the dignity of woman, probably because no religion
has ever recognized the worth of the individual. Just as I have said, that in the old days,
and almost as largely to-day, in the relations of the home, it was the family that counted
and not the individual, so in his relations to the larger world beyond the individual formerly
counted for nothing when weighed against the wishes of the superior classes. In the earliest
days, when the lord died, a number of his subjects were buried with him to wait upon his spirit
in the Beyond. Later, with the same object in view, wives and servants committed suicide on
the death of the master. Even now it is regarded as honorable for a girl to sell herself into
shame to save the family from want.

The same antipodal difference between East and West--here "the family is the social unit" and
with us the individual himself--explains the system of adoption: a younger son not being essential
to the maintenance of the family cult may be adopted into another family, while the eldest
son may not. On the same principle the father rules, not because of what he represents as an
Individual, but because he represents the Family. Whenever he chooses, he abdicates, and must
then join his other children in obeying the eldest son. A Japanese writer recently declared
that "the value of the individual life is an illustration of the Christian spirit" that is
profoundly influencing Japan, and he mentioned as an example that formerly suicide, in such
circumstances as I have mentioned, "was regarded as an honorable act; now it is regarded as a sin."

Without professing the religion of fatalism which so influences the peoples of the Nearer East,
the Japanese soldiers behave like fatalists because the fundamental basis of the social order
for centuries has been the necessity of the Individual to sacrifice pleasure, comfort, or life
itself when required either by the Family or by the Social Order. And this partially explains
why it is said in sober earnest that the highest ambition of most Japanese schoolboys to-day
is to die for their Emperor.

---

This is my last letter from Japan, and my next letter will be from Korea--if the cholera doesn't
get me. It has been raging in Osaka and in Kobe, both of which cities I have thought it necessary
to visit in order to get first-hand information about industrial conditions. Ordinarily, the
cholera victim lives only a few hours. The first day's record here in Kobe, I believe, showed
six cases and five deaths. Gradually, however, cholera is being stamped out, just as we have
eradicated yellow fever in Cuba and the South, and just as we shall eventually come to recognize
the prevalence of typhoid in any town as a disgrace--an evidence of primitive and uncivilized
{57} sanitary conditions. A friend of mine who came to Osaka in 1879 tells me that there were
10,000 cholera victims in that one city that year--the yellow flag on almost every street,
and all through the night the sound of men hurrying past with new victims for the hospitals
or with new corpses for the burning. In the thirteen years 1878-91 more than 313,000 Japanese
died of the scourge.

I regret to say good-by to Japan. It is a tremendously interesting country. For just as America
represents the ultimate type of Occidental civilization, so does Japan represent the ultimate
type of Oriental civilization.

More than this, it is here that the full tides of Oriental and Occidental life are now meeting
for the first time in human history. For centuries uncounted the yellow man advanced across
the plains and peaks of Asia, finding at last in these outlying islands his farthermost outpost,
and so tarried here in the Farthest East, "the Land of the Rising Sun." He hardly thought of
the existence of a West, but if his Buddha-like composure had been ruffled by such a thought,
he might have droned monotonously:

  "Oh, East is East, and West is West,
   and never the twain shall meet."

But while the yellow man had thus moved steadily eastward, the white man, starting from the
land of the Euphrates, had pitched his camp, with each succeeding generation, nearer and nearer
the setting sun. Greece--Rome--Spain--France--England--then four hundred years ago, more restless
than the Mongolian, the white man dared the seas that hemmed him in and found a new continent
to people. Westward still the course of empire then continued until in our time the white man
planted his civilization on the Pacific Coast.

There was no more West.

Then it was, as if in obedience to a cosmic, racial instinct deeper than reason, the white
man sent his messengers across the new-found ocean and awakened the Sleepy World {58} of the
Yellow Man by the booming of Perry's guns off Yokahoma.

The Kingdom of Heaven, we are told, cometh not with observation, and the deeper meaning of
the greatest events in human history may often escape the attention of contemporaries. My father
and yours, perhaps, heard little and thought less of Perry's exploit, and yet it marked not
merely a new historical epoch, but a new act in the long drama of human evolution itself. Curious,
too, it is to observe how the strange world-destiny that shapes our ends gave to it a stage-setting
in keeping with its dramatic significance. Not to England, nor to any other great naval and
commercial Power of the time, but to the young United States--the nation that had found the
ultimate West--came the unlikely but strangely fitting task of opening the Farthest East to
Western trade and thought.

When at last the world has grown old and nations and empires not yet formed shall themselves
have gone the mortal way common alike to human creatures and human creations, I think the far
historian will record few events either more dramatic or more pregnant with undreamed-of meaning
than Perry's entrance into Japanese waters just five years after the discovery of gold in California
had ended the world-old drama of our westward march.

So to-day, as I have said, the full tides of Orient and Occident have rushed together in Japan,
and it is not merely a land of curious customs and strange phenomena, but a land in which the
contrasts exist side by side, and most interesting of all, a land of strangely mingling social
and industrial currents. East and West have met, and we wait to see what forces in each shall
prevail when the shock of their fierce encounter shall have passed. For it is not merely Japan,
but all Asia, whose future may be affected by the outcome of the new, tense struggle here between
the ideals of West and East.

As on the streets of Tokyo and Yokahoma the Japanese {59} in European dress jostles his brother
in native garb, as streams of men in coats and trousers and shoes mingle with men wearing kimonas,
hikamas, and getas, so in the minds of the people the teachings of modern science and Confucian
classic meet; the faith of the Christian grapples with the faith of the Buddhist; the masterful
aspirations of Western civilization surge against the old placidity of the East.

What shall be the outcome? Upon nothing else, it seems to me, depends so much as upon the religious
foundation upon which Japan seeks to build the structure of her newer and richer life. Many
of her people, if I may change the figure, are seeking to put the new wine of Christian civilization
into the old bottles of Shinto and Buddhist ritualism. That this must fail is, I think, self-evident.
Many others, like the iconoclasts of the French Revolution, would sweep away all religion,
but they will find that they are fighting against an ineradicable instinct of human nature,
the innate craving of the divine in man.

In my own brief stay in Japan I have seen enough to convince me of the truth of both the foregoing
observations. I confess that I came to the country with a distinct doubt as to the wisdom of
stressing mission work here--came thinking the field less promising then elsewhere. But I go
away with no such feeling. What I have seen and heard has dispelled my doubts. Speaking simply
as a journalist and a student of social and industrial conditions, I believe that to-day Japan
needs nothing more than Christian missionaries--men who are willing to forget dogma and tradition
and creedal differences in emphasizing the fundamental teachings of Christ Himself, and who
have education, sympathy, and vision to fit them for the stupendous task of helping mold a
new and composite type of human civilization, a type which may ultimately make conquest of
the whole Oriental half of our human race.

Kobe, Japan.

{60}

VII

KOREA: "THE LAND OF THE MORNING CALM"

I have become a contemporary of David and the patriarchs of Israel. In the civilization into
which I have come science and invention are in swaddling clothes, the Pyramids are yet young,
the great nations of Western Europe still in the womb of Time.

This at least is how I have felt now that, having left Japan, I am travelling through Korea,
"the Land of the Morning Calm"--or "Chosen," as the Japanese will call it hereafter--whose
authentic recorded history runs back into the twelfth century before the Christian era, and
whose general features must have changed but little in all this time. A typical Korean view
of the present year might well be photographed to illustrate a Sunday-school lesson from the
Old Testament.

The men in the fields I have seen plow with bullocks harnessed in the primitive fashion of
the earliest civilization. Their plow stocks are of wood rough-hewn from their native forest
trees, the plowman here never standing between the "plow-handles," as we say, because there
is only one handle and that little better than a stick of firewood. With sickles equally primitive
I have seen men cutting the ripe rice in the fields; with flails, beating out their grain.
Their houses, hardly high enough to stand up in, are little more than four square rock walls
with roofs of straw, over which pumpkin vines clamber or on which immense quantities of red
pepper are drying in the autumn sun. Nor would the dress of the people--everybody {61} in white
(or what was once white) garments--have seemed strange in ancient Judea.

There is also the same mixture of plains and peaks as Bible pictures of the Holy Land have
made familiar, and at night, as October's hunters' moon glorifies all the landscape, a faint
light gleaming here and there from an opening in the rock huts, and with Arcturus and the Pleiades
of Job in the sky, it has seemed almost sacrilege to mar the ancient environment by such an
anachronism as a modern railway locomotive. Rather, in looking out over the picturesque mountains
and valleys and sniffing the cool, dry air, you feel "the call of the wild" in your blood.
Across long centuries the life of your far-gone nomadic ancestors calls to you. Almost irresistibly
you are moved to take a human friend and a friendly horse or pony and pitch your camp out under
the great stars--larger and brighter indeed do they seem to burn here in the Orient--and feel
the dew on your face as you awaken in the "morning calm" of the ancient Hermit Kingdom, whose
feeble life was snuffed out, like the flame of a burnt-down candle, but a few short months ago.

As I came into Seoul three nights ago I found it hardly less fascinating than the country through
which I had travelled during the day. Through ancient streets, unlit by any electric glare,
strangely robed, almost spirit-like white figures were gliding here and there in the moonlight,
singly or in groups, and but a few minutes' ride in our rickshaws brought us to the old South
Gate. Great monument of a dead era is it, relic of the days when Seoul trusted to its ten miles
of massive stone walls (already a century old when Columbus set sail from Palos) to keep out
the war-like Mongol and Tartar.

In Japan I found a different world from that which I had known, but a world in which East and
West were strangely mingled: much of the familiar with the unfamiliar. Here in Korea, on the
contrary, I have found the real East, the Asia of romance, of tradition and of fable, almost
untouched by {62} Western influences--dirty, squalid, unprogressive, and yet with a fascination
all its own. Great bare mountains look down on the capital city, the old city-wall climbing
their steep sides, and the historic Han flows through an adjacent valley. The thatched or tiled
roofs of the houses are but little higher than one's head, and I shall never forget what a
towering skyscraper effect is produced by a photographer's little two-story studio building
on the main street of the city. Practically every other building is but little higher and not
greatly larger as a rule, than the pens in which our American farmers fatten hogs in the fall.
Most American merchants would expect to make more in a day than the average white-robed, easy-going
Seoul merchant has in stock, but he smokes his long-stemmed pipe in peaceful contemplation
of the world and doesn't worry. There are no sidewalks in Seoul, of course, although it has
been for five centuries (until now) the capital of a kingdom, and a quarter of a million people
call the city their home; no carriages or buggies, no sewerage, and but few horses. There are
miserable little overloaded ponies that the average farmer would feel that he could pitch single-handed
into his barn-loft, but the burden-carriers are mostly bulls that are really magnificent in
appearance, both oxen and ponies carrying loads on their backs that an American would expect
to crush them.

The customs are odd indeed. Men wear enormous straw hats as a badge of mourning, but the usual
style of head-dress is to shave the extreme summit of the head, while the rest of the hair
grows long and is braided up in a sort of topknot with a little bird-cage hat above it. This
hat is then tied under the chin as an American woman would tie hers.

Girls are but little seen on the streets, custom requiring them to stay indoors before marriage,
and the married women, when on the street are likely to wear a sort of green wrap thrown over
their heads and shoulders that leaves only their eyes and contiguous facial territory exposed.
The tourist is at first {63} inclined to think that there are many young girls on the streets,
but this is because the boys dress as we have grown used to seeing girls dress in America.
Take the young boy who waits on my table: fair of feature in his neat white dress, and with
a long glossy hair-plait hanging down his back, you would think him some fair Korean maiden.
When he gets married a little later, probably at seventeen or eighteen, he will shave his head
(not necessarily as a sign of mourning!) and wear his hair thereafter in the manner described
in the preceding paragraph. An English missionary-doctor's pretty daughter here yesterday (and
how pretty an English or American girl does look in this far land!) told me that a Korean girl
of twenty or twenty-one is regarded as a rather desperate old maid, and the go-betweens, who
arrange the marriages here as they do in Japan, are likely to charge a rather steep sum for
getting a husband for one so far advanced in spinsterhood! The chances are that the groom doesn't
see his bride until the ceremony, and she doesn't even see him then, for according to the curious
custom here the bride's eyes are sealed up until late afternoon of her wedding day. More than
this, custom requires that the bride must keep absolutely unbroken silence all the day long,
and for a varying length of time thereafter. Mrs. Bishop in her book on Korea asserts that
"it may be a week or several months before the husband knows the sound of his wife's voice,"--and
the nature of the dear creatures in America will of course insure the ready acceptance of her
statement!

The go-betweens are often not very scrupulous, and for good fees sometimes manage to palm off
damsels of unsatisfactory features on unsuspecting swains, or match undesirable young fellows
with girls vastly superior to them. A rather amusing instance was reported to me by the young
lady from whom I have just quoted. One of the officials or noblemen in Seoul had a daughter
whom the go-between was preparing to marry off into a family of rank in another city. A few
days before the wedding-day-set-to-be, some one came to {64} the father of the bride and said:
"Did you know that your prospective son-in-law has a hare-lip?" Now a hare-lip in Korea is
not merely such an undesirable addition to one's countenance as to make a Mrs. Wiggs happy
because of being without it, but under the old dispensation no one with a harelip, or other
like facial blemish, could be presented at court and thereby introduced into the Four Hundred
of this capital city. Therefore the father waxed thoughtful from his topknot to the end of
his long-stem pipe. "I tell you what I'll do," he finally said to his wife. "We'll go ahead
with the ceremony, but instead of my daughter I'll substitute my orphan niece." And he did,
and the young fellow didn't know any better for a week.

Fortunately, however, my story doesn't end here. I am extremely glad to add the usual "lived-happily-ever-after"
peroration, for that was really what happened in this case. The father of my young lady informant,
who is a doctor, sewed up the young fellow's lip, he was presented at court, and the real daughter
who so narrowly escaped marrying may be an old maid, for all I know.

In such a high, dry climate as this one would expect to find little tuberculosis, but I am
told that there is really a great deal of it, due to the carelessness of the families where
there are victims, and to the generally unsanitary conditions. A daughter of one of the Southern
missionaries here, having contracted the malady, has just gone to Arizona in search of cure.
Everywhere on the streets I encounter faces marked by smallpox, and formerly to have had the
disease was the rule rather than the exception. In fact, instead of alluding to a man's inexperience
by saying "He hasn't cut his eye teeth," as we do, a Korean would say: "He hasn't had smallpox."
Since vaccination became the rule, however, there are very few cases.

Infant mortality here, as in America, is one of the greatest factors in the high death-rate,
but conditions are improving. {65} And so long as authorities declare that in America half
the infant death-rate is due to ignorance or neglect, we haven't much right to point a scornful
finger at Korea, anyhow.

I have already alluded to the fact that the old monarchial government of Korea ended its inglorious
career but a few short months ago. While the records of the nation run back more than three
thousand years--probably to a period when Job was so superbly reproaching his comforters in
the Land of Uz--the late dynasty runs back only 500 years. We Americans, I may say in passing,
are accustomed to think of men of five hundred years ago, or even of John Smith and Pocahontas,
as very ancient, but a pedigree of only five hundred years wouldn't entitle a family to enter
good society over here. But though only five hundred years in power, this recent dynasty succeeded
in doing about as much devilment and as little good as many dynasties much older in years.
One of the missionaries explained to me yesterday that it was only when the King got very mad
that he would order heads cut off without reason--but then the Koreans are very lazy and his
inactivity at other periods may have been due to sloth.

The truth is, that most of these Oriental monarchies have been corrupt beyond the belief of
the average American. When I was a boy I used to hear the old men in country churches thank
God for the blessings of orderly government and for the privilege of worshipping as they chose,
"with no one to molest us or make us afraid." As a rule, we take such things as matters of
course, but when one comes over here into Asia and into countries where the people have been
cursed by corrupt governments, where innocent lives have been taken upon the mere whim of the
government, where property has been confiscated with no better reason, and where men have had
to die for their faiths:--when he, in short, comes into lands where the rights of neither life,
property nor conscience have been respected, he is likely to prize his American privileges
somewhat more highly.

{66}

The old Korean dynasty was not only corrupt, but unspeakably stupid. Like the people, the King
relied on sorcerers or fortune-tellers to find a lucky day or a lucky time of the moon to do
whatever he wished, and in case of sickness consulted the mutang, or conjurer, instead of a
doctor. Thus when the prince had smallpox some years ago, the mutang declared that the Smallpox
Spirit or devil (who must always be referred to with great respect as "His Excellency") would
not leave unless allowed to ride horseback clear to the Korean boundary, three hundred miles
away; and a gayly caparisoned horse was accordingly led the entire distance for His Excellency,
the Smallpox Spirit, to ride away on!

The government was also unfeignedly corrupt. Offices were given, just as lives were taken merely
at the whim of the Throne. Taxes were farmed out, the grafting collectors taking from the people
probably five or six times as much as finally reached the public treasury. More than this,
the nobility robbed the people at will, and there was no authority from whom they could get
redress. Woe unto the man who became energetic and industrious under the old dispensation!
First, the tax-gatherers would relieve him of the bulk of his swollen fortune, and what was
left the noble or "Yang-ban," as a noble was called, would take the trouble to borrow but never
take the trouble to repay. For the Yang-ban was a "gentleman," he was. It was beneath his dignity
to work--even to guide the reins of the horse he rode--but it was not beneath his dignity to
sponge on his friends (I think the verb "to sponge" is too expressive to remain slang) or to
borrow without repaying. Moreover, in case of extremity, it is said that Mother Yang-ban and
Sister Ann might take in washing, as is recorded in the classic lays of our own land, but Father
never defiled himself by doing anything so dishonorable as an honest day's work.

But alas and alack! for the degeneracy of our times. The Yang-bans in Korea have been deprived
of their ancient {67} privileges, and I fear that even their fellows in America are by no means
treated with the ancient deference and respect due to persons of such exalted merit and blue-blood.

What with the arbitrary and oppressive system of tax-robbery and the extortions of the Yang-bans
it is not surprising that the Koreans here became disinclined to labor, while those who went
to Manchuria, where there has been "proper security for the gains of industry" are said to
be quite a different folk--energetic because there has been encouragement to be energetic.
The old Korean system of taxation being arbitrary, the only way to escape a raid by the tax-gatherer
was to appear not to have anything worth raiding, and with the coinage confined usually to
the copper "cash" (each "cash" worth a small fraction of a cent), it was difficult for a man
to have much money without everybody knowing it. If a man had much he needed a warehouse to
store it in. Mrs. Bishop in her book, already referred to, speaks of a time when it took 3200
"cash" to equal a dollar in our money, making each coin worth 1-32 of a cent, and it took six
men or one pony to carry $50 worth of coin! Another instance is mentioned in the Japanese official
Year Book on Korea. The Japanese army bought $5000 worth of timber in the interior, where the
people were not used to any other currency, with the result that "the army had to charter a
small steamer and fill her completely with this copper cash to finance the transaction!" I
bought a few long, necklace-like strings of this old Korean money at ten cents a string, and
even then probably paid too much.

When I bought my ticket for Korea it was nominally an independent monarchy under a Japanese
"protectorate," but the day before I sailed from San Francisco, Japanese aggression took another
step and the country was formally annexed as a part of the Japanese Empire. There is little
doubt, I suppose, that the Japanese will give the Koreans better government than the old monarchy
gave them, but one {68} cannot excuse all the methods by which Japan fastened her rule on the
island. Yesterday morning I went out to the Old North Palace, a deserted and melancholy memorial
of vanished power, stood on the throne where Korean kings once held audience, and saw the royal
dwelling in which the Japanese and their aids killed the Queen in 1895, and also saw the place
where they burned her body. The Japanese minister at that time was recalled and placed on trial
for the offence, and, though he escaped conviction, the evidence of his guilt was undoubted.
It has been estimated that in about eighteen months in 1907-'08, "12,916 Koreans, called 'insurgents'
by the Japanese and patriots by their fellow countrymen, were killed by the Mikado's soldiers
and gendarmes, only 160 of whom lost their lives." This looks more like butchery than war.
Moreover, the Japanese themselves have to admit that there were inexcusable delays in paying
for land seized from Koreans, and in view of all the circumstances it is questionable whether
the Korean hatred or dislike of Japan will become very much less cordial than it is to-day.

Perhaps in no country in the world has missionary work been more successful than in Korea (there
are probably 125,000 Protestants now, while there were only 777 thirteen years ago), and I
have been interested to learn that there is absolutely no truth in the Japanese newspaper reports
that immense numbers of native Christians are leaving the church since annexation. On the contrary,
reports from all over the country are good, and Seoul itself is just now in the midst of a
most thoroughgoing and successful Christian revival, with 1800 conversions reported during
the first ten days. At a Methodist mission school I visited this morning I found that a hundred
of the native pupils had been canvassing the town a part of three successive afternoons with
the result that they had brought in the names of 697 Koreans expressing a desire to become
Christians.

Here in Korea there is no waste of energy or money through {69} denominational divisions. Each
denomination has its own sphere of activity, preventing duplication of effort, and my general
observation has convinced me that the criticisms of foreign mission work sometimes heard in
America are based on a radical misconception of conditions. Even the non-Christians, in the
great majority of cases, speak in high praise of the splendid work of the missionaries. A typical
expression is that found in the latest issue of the Shanghai National Review, now before me,
which may be expected to speak impartially. Referring to an address by Doctor Morrison, the
Peking correspondent of the London Times, it says:

  "Doctor Morrison eulogized the work of the missionaries and we
  cannot conceive that anybody who really knows of their work at first
  hand, not as it is to be found in extreme cases, but as ordinarily
  carried on, should do otherwise than eulogize it."

Seoul, Korea.

{70}

VIII

MANCHURIA--FAIR AND FERTILE

"Uneasily sleeps Mukden to-night"--I remember yet how one of the dispatches began which brought
so vividly to my mind the meaning of the great death-grapple here between the Japanese and
Russian hosts in 1905.

  [Footnote: "Uneasily sleeps Mukden to-night. In the main street
  lamps burn dimly. Along dark roads in heavy dust are marching
  columns. The cool night is full of the low rustle of movement. Near
  the station, in over-filled hospitals, are heard low groans. The
  wounded arrive in a never-ceasing stream of carts, and another
  stream of ambulances moves northward, for the place must be cleared
  for to-day's victims. The eternal pines whisper above the Tombs of
  Chinese Emperors. In the fields watch fires are burning stores and
  evacuated villages----" And the correspondent goes on to tell of the
  wearied forces gathering for further fighting with the coming of
  dawn--men footsore and weak for want of food and water and rest. For
  forty-eight hours the Japanese had not eaten.]

The story in a nutshell is this:

  "After the capitulation of Port Arthur, Oyama pressed toward Mukden,
  where Kuropatkin had established his headquarters, and there from
  February 24 to March 12 occurred probably the most desperate battle
  in modern history, if not in all history. About eight hundred
  thousand men were engaged. Again Oyama won, and Kuropatkin retreated
  in fairly good order about a hundred miles north of Mukden."

So runs the historian's brief record of the titanic struggle five years ago in the ancient
Manchurian city to which I have come. What Gettysburg was in our Civil War, that Mukden was
in the first great contest between the white race and the Mongolian. Here covetous Death for
once was satisfied, his gruesome garnering seen at each wintry nightfall in the {71} windrows
of bloody and mangled bodies strewn along miles of snowy trenches.

I have heard all sorts of war traditions in Mukden: that at one time the Japanese thought themselves
beaten in the battle and had ordered a retreat, when, a Russian force giving way, they turned
quickly to press the advantage and snatched victory from what they had thought was ruin. There
are many stories, too, of the inefficiency of the Russian officers, stories made all the more
probable in the light of the Russian Commander Kuropatkin's memoirs to the same general effect.
"Why, the English would put one of their admirals against the wall and shoot him like a common
seaman for such gross neglect of duty as went entirely unpunished among Russian generals,"
was one man's comment as he talked with me. "The Rooshians were good fighters--fought 'and
to 'and with the butt of their muskets--and if they 'ad 'ad good commanders the Japs would
never have won," said an Englishman who had seen service in India. A railway man also told
me of the debauchery and profligacy of the Russian officers, disreputable women travelling
regularly with them to and fro, drunkenness being also common. About the same charges were
reported to me by a Japanese officer. In fact, it is said that the Japanese contrived to get
a very considerable quantity of champagne to the Russian headquarters one day, and the next
day made a slaughter-pen of the Russian camp while the Cossack commanders were still hopelessly
befuddled from too much drinking!

The truth is that the Japanese, from camp-followers to commander-in-chief, were prepared for
war and the Russians were not. From the day that Russia, aided by France and Germany, forced
Japan to cede back to China some of the fruits of her victory over the Chinese, from that hour
Japan nursed and fed fat her rankling grudge and bided her time as deliberately as a tiger
waiting to spring. While I was in Japan an Englishman told me that immediately after Russia
forced Japan {72} to give up her spoils of victory he was amazed to see the tremendous interest
in the military drills in all the Japanese schools. When he asked what it meant, there was
one frank answer: "We are getting ready to lick Russia."

It should also be observed that when the war came on the Japanese were not only in a state
of preparedness so far as battleships and army drill and munitions of war were concerned, but
they were also prepared in the vital matter of proper medical attendance.

"When your American soldiers went with Shafter into Cuba the army was utterly without proper
medical corps and equipment, and the death-rate was disgracefully high. But the first Japanese
who fell in crossing the Yalu were taken at once to the best of Japanese surgeons and cared
for in the most approved of modern military hospitals." So said a frank Scotchman to me yesterday,
and in the light of the official statistics I could say nothing in palliation of the unpleasant
allusion to America. When the war with Russia ended, Baron Takaki, Surgeon-General of the Japanese
Army, boasted that whereas in the Spanish-America War "fourteen men died from preventable diseases
to one man killed on the field of battle," the Japanese had lost only one man from disease
to every four from bullets. Now the Japanese, as usual, had not worked out any of the principles
of medical science, sanitation, and hygiene which enabled them to make this remarkable record,
but they showed their characteristic facility in taking the white man's inventions and getting
as much or more--more in this case--out of them than the white man himself.

The Japanese record, showing in such amazing fashion what a wisely directed health organization
may accomplish, is worth remembering not only in connection with plans for military efficiency,
but also in connection with plans for general public health activities at home. Every State
should spend five times as much for this public health work as at present.

In 1910 the forgetful Manchurian earth bears but few traces {73} of the fierce contest that
only five or six years ago scarred its bosom, and the serried shocks of newly harvested corn,
kaoliang (sorghum) and millet--in some infrequent instances fertilized by the dead men's bones--are
seen on fields where contending armies struggled. Let it be so for a little while; let the
Manchurian peasant sow and garner in peace while he may; for still the war cloud hangs heavy
above China's Three Eastern Provinces, and in the next struggle the peasant's blood may redden
his own fields. For that the fighting has not ended is to me perfectly clear. By reason of
the Japanese railroad monopoly through the very heart of Southern Manchuria, and her leased
territory on the coast, Japan has obtained power bordering on control, and everything goes
to show that she has fully made up her mind to complete and retain that control.

Moreover, when one has seen the great Manchurian empire, it is easy to understand how it has
now roused the covetousness of Japan just as the temptation a few years ago proved too strong
for Russia. Immense farming areas are only thinly settled; some of the richest of the world's
mineral resources have only been touched.

A day or two ago I went out to see Mr. Edward C. Parker, in charge of the agricultural experiment
farm here (he is a Minnesota man, I believe), and found him enthusiastic over his corn crop
just harvested. "I have been so surprised by the growth of corn this year," he declared, "that
I could hardly believe my own eyes. I have never seen finer seed ears anywhere." Among American
states, only Iowa, he declares, is probably more fertile than Manchuria; with stock-raising
to prevent land-deterioration, all the vast southern section could beat Illinois growing crops,
and the same thing could be said of the northern country but for its colder climate. About
Harbin, where the South Manchuria Railway joins the Trans-Siberian Line, one may see cuts thirty
feet deep and the soil rich to the bottom. Most of Manchuria is level--strikingly like our
Western Corn Belt and Wheat Belt--and the {74} soil is of wind-drift origin "like a great snow-blanket,"
very easily tilled. The plowing is done with a steel-tipped wooden beam such as I have already
written of seeing in Korea, and only the favoring physical texture of the soil explains the
fat harvests of food, feed, and fuel achieved under such methods.

It has been a positive joy to me in traveling through the country here in late October to see
the great shocks of kaoliang, millet and corn (even with labor at 20 cents a day out here,
the people don't pull fodder!), quaint-looking farmhouses almost surrounded by well-stuffed
barns, and corn cribs packed until the overflowing yellow ears spill out the ampler cracks.
The kaoliang is a sort of sorghum, the grain being used for food, while the stalks, which contain
but little sugar, are used for fuel. Consequently the barnyards packed to the limit and running
over with

  "The garnered largess of the fruitful year"

not only mean feed for all the variegated animals that are used in Manchurian agriculture,
but fuel for the long Manchurian winters as well. I even find the peasants digging up the roots
and stubble to be dried and burned in the houses.

One sees but a small proportion of good horses here, and practically no four-wheeled farm wagons.
Unlike Japan, however, Manchuria does have its farm vehicles: great heavy two-wheeled carts
drawn by from two to eight horses, donkeys, and asses. Sometimes there is a big horse or two,
then one or two donkeys half the size of the horses, and a couple of little asses or burros
half the size of the donkeys--and maybe a bull thrown in for good measure. It looks as if the
Whole Blamed Family of work-stock had been hitched to pull the cart. The Whole Blamed Family
is often needed, too, for the roads in China are ample proof that we needn't expect ours in
America or anywhere else to get any better by letting them alone three thousand years. The
Chinese have tried it, and it doesn't work. The October roads are so bad in many places that
if {75} the carts had four wheels instead of two not even the combined aggregation in the team
could pull them out of the mud. A little later, however, the roads freeze over solidly and
stay so for five or six months--and then the Manchurian farmers go on long, slow pilgrimages
carrying their products to the larger markets--sometimes two or three hundred miles from home.

The pride and glory of Manchuria, the talk of its citizens, the foundation of its prosperity,
the backbone of its commerce, the symbol of its wealth, is the bean--the common soja, or soy
bean as we know it. What corn is to our Corn Belt and what cotton is to our Southern States,
that the bean is to Manchuria: supreme among products. There is no class of people not affected
by the prosperity or the adversity of his Majesty the Bean. Bankers, merchants, farmers, even
the ladies one meets in the drawing-rooms in the foreign concessions, not only "know beans,"
but can talk beans too. If the present rate of progress is maintained, it will not be long
until no one will enumerate the world's great crops--wheat, corn, oats, rice, rye, barley,
cotton, etc.--without including beans. The first beans were shipped to Europe only about four
years ago, and the London Times correspondent estimates that next year Europe will take $35,000,000
worth. In a very great measure the beans have the same properties as cottonseed, an oil being
extracted that is used for much the same purposes as cottonseed oil, while the residue called
"bean cake" is about the equivalent of cottonseed meal. It is somewhat superior, Mr. Parker
says, to cottonseed meal or linseed meal as a stock feed, but is now chiefly used for fertilizing
purposes. My first acquaintance with the bean cake was in Japan, where I found it enriching
the earth for vegetable-growing, Japan importing an average of half a million tons a year to
put under its crops. Manchuria also uses not a little for the same purpose. The more intelligent
Manchurian farmers, however, are learning that it is a waste to rot one of the best cattle
feeds in the {76} world and get its fertilizing value only--just as our American farmers, it
is gratifying to see, are at last waking up to the disgraceful folly of using cottonseed meal
as a crop-producer without first getting its other value as a meat-producer.

I find out, furthermore, that what old Maury's Geography led me to believe was a vast Desert
of Gobi here in North China or Mongolia alongside Manchuria is not a genuine desert at all,
but chiefly a great grass plain with golden possibilities as a cattle country. Mr. Parker declares
that if cattle were grown on these immense ranges and brought to Manchuria in the fall to be
fattened off on bean cake, millet, etc., Harbin, Chang-chun, Mukden, and other Manchurian cities
might soon build packing plants that would rival Chicago's in bigness. This system of stock-raising
would also solve the problem of maintaining soil fertility, just as it would bring relief to
those sections of America where the policy of selling everything off the land and putting nothing
back threatens disaster.

The old ridge system of growing crops, the rows thrown up as high as the little plows will
permit and the crops planted on top, is the general practice here, and Mr. Parker is making
an effort through the experiment farm to convince the people of the advantages of level cultivation.
He also wishes to introduce better plows. "The truth is," he says, "that we never had any real
plows until James Oliver and John Deere invented theirs. All the plowing before that was merely
scratch-work, and here in Manchuria the plows are hardly better than those the Egyptians used.
But for the extremely light, ash-like, wind-drift soil the people with such crude tools could
hardly make enough to subsist on."

In Korea I noticed some moderately fair cotton fields, and in Manchuria I have also found a
few patches, though the climate here is obviously too cold for its profitable production. I
find that the Japanese have great faith in the future of the industry in Korea.

This notice of Manchurian farming would not be complete {77} without some mention of the queer
aspect of many of the cultivated fields-- thick-dotted with earth mounds, around which the
rows are curved and twisted, these mounds resembling medium-sized potato hills. They contain
not vegetables, however, but bones. Each cone-shaped mound is a Chinaman's grave. I first noticed
this method of burying in Korea, but the mounds are quite low there--all that I saw, at least,
except the Queen's Tomb at Seoul. Here in Manchuria they are about three or four feet high
in most cases, and sometimes six. One of the famous sights of Mukden is the Peilang, or Northern
Tomb, where old Taitsun, the first great Manchu Emperor of China, lies buried, and the grave
proper (reached after a long approach of temple buildings, magnificent gates, images, and monuments)
is a huge earth mound, probably an acre in extent. The base is thrown up twenty-five or thirty
feet high and surrounded by a rock wall, while the cone-shaped summit runs up about twenty
feet higher. The Chinese have a deep-rooted superstition as to the existence of a sort of devil
or "fung-shui" in the ground, and to disturb this fung-shui may prove the direful spring of
more "woes unnumbered" than the Iliad records. Such a fung-shui is supposed to exist under
the surface of the earth about the Mukden royal tombs, and, accordingly, the railroad between
Mukden and Peking had to run twenty-five miles out of its proper course in order not to disturb it.

Mukden, Manchuria.

{78}

IX

WHERE JAPAN IS ABSORBING AN EMPIRE

"The Open Door in Manchuria--of what concern is it to me any more than the revolution in Portugal
or the Young Turks movement in Constantinople?" With some such expression the average American
is likely to dismiss the question--a question whose determination may prove the pivot on which
will swing the greatest world-movements of our time as well as the prosperity of many European
and American industries, and that of the labor dependent upon them.

I

Concerning Manchuria and all the issues involved in the present struggle for its possession,
all kinds of misconceptions are rife. That it is a small country; that it is an infertile country;
that it must be already well developed in point of population and consumption of goods: this
is only the ABC of Manchurian misinformation.

In answer, it need only be said that Manchuria is larger than all our New England, Middle,
and South Atlantic States from Maine to Georgia inclusive, and that into its borders all of
Great Britain (England, Scotland and Wales), together with all of the German Empire, could
be crowded, and still leave a gap so big that Holland, Belgium, and Switzerland would lack
thousands of square miles of filling it: while as to population Manchuria has only 18,000,000
people as compared with {79} 118,000,000 in the European countries just mentioned. And after
having travelled in all of them as well as in Manchuria I should say that the Asiatic area
is the more fertile.

The possibilities of such an empire situated in the fairest portion of Asia's temperate zone
are simply illimitable. No one who has been through the fruitful lands of the American Corn
Belt and Wheat Belt and goes later through Manchuria can fail to note the similarity between
them in physical appearance and natural resources, and it may well be that what the settlement
of the West has meant in America these last fifty years the development of Manchuria will mean
in Asia these next fifty.

In itself the sheer creation of such a country--larger far than Great Britain and Germany,
as rich as Illinois and Manitoba--would appeal at once to American commerce and industry, but
you have only begun to grasp the significance of Manchuria when you compare it to the creation
of such an empire in some favored portion of the sea.

Manchuria means all this, but it means more: Its possession would give such vastly increased
influence to any Power possessing it as to make that Power a menace to the commercial rights
of all other nations in Asia--rights of almost vital importance both to Europe and America.
England and Germany, of course, are already dependent upon foreign trade for their prosperity,
and President McKinley was never so seerlike as when, in his last speech at Buffalo, he reminded
the American people that their own future greatness depends upon the development of trade beyond
the seas. And it was to Asia, the greatest of continents, and especially to China, the greatest
of countries on this greatest of continents, that he looked, as we must also look to-day. In
Secretary Hay's memorial address on McKinley, which I had the good fortune to hear, the dead
President's determined efforts to maintain the ancient integrity of the Dragon Empire were
fittingly mentioned as one of his most distinguished services to his people and his time. {80}
To keep the immense area of China from spoliation by other nations and to preserve to all peoples
equal commercial rights within boundaries are absolutely essential to the proper future development
of both European and American commerce and industry.

II

This is why the Open Door in Manchuria is a matter of very real concern to every Occidental
citizen; this is why the other nations after the ending of the Russo-Japanese War were careful
to see that these belligerents guaranteed a continuance of the Open Door policy; this is why
it is of importance to us to know whether this pledge is being kept.

In centering my attention upon Japan in this article let me say in the outset, I am not to
be understood as being one whit more tolerant of Russian than of Japanese aggression in Manchuria--I
am not. In the Russo-Japanese War my sympathies were all with Japan, my present friendships
with numbers of her sons I prize very highly, but I cannot blind myself to the fact that she
is apparently "drunk with sight of power" in the Orient.

As conditions are to-day, the reason for giving primary attention to Japan's position in Manchuria
rather than Russia's must be self-evident. In the first place, the territory embraced in her
sphere of influence is more important and contains two thirds the population. Then again: Northern
Manchuria being cold and inhospitable, Japan's sphere not only covers the fairer and more favored
section agriculturally, but from the standpoint of military strategy (as a mighty war taught
all the world) Japan is vastly better placed. With Port Arthur in her possession, and the new
broad-gauge line from Antung and Mukden enabling her to rush troops across the Sea of Japan
and through Korea to Manchuria without once getting into foreign waters or on foreign soil,
she could ask nothing better. And finally and most significant of all, Russia has {83} suffered
perhaps the greatest humiliation in her history by reason of Manchurian aggression; she has
learned Japan's point of vantage; and whatever advance she makes in the near future will be
only by Japanese sufferance and connivance.

{81}

  Manchuria is a vast empire--one of the most fertile portions of the
  earth's surface. The great money crop is the soy bean, and the lower
  picture shows miles of beans and bean-cake awaiting shipment at
  Changchun.

{82}

  Everything in China is scrupulously saved--except human labor. That
  is wasted on a colossal scale through the failure to use improved
  machinery or scientific knowledge.

{83 continued}

Whatever may be the meaning of the alleged secret treaty between Japan and Russia, the great
truth which all nations need to remember is this: Whatever scotches Japanese aggression in
Manchuria scotches Russian aggression at the same time--automatically and simultaneously. To
the Open Door in Manchuria Japan carries the key.

III

Japan's primary commercial advantage over all other nations in South Manchuria, her railway
monopoly, together with the use she is making of this monopoly and her plans to maintain it,
we must now consider more in detail.

When the war with Russia ended, Japan succeeded Russia in the control of what is now the South
Manchurian Railway, running from Dairen (formerly Dalny) to Chang-chun, 438 miles, through
the very heart of the country, and she also obtained from China the right "to maintain and
work the military line constructed between Antung and Mukden and"--as if of secondary importance--"to
improve the said line so as to make it fit for the conveyance of commercial and industrial
goods of all nations." The stipulation with regard to the South Manchurian Railway was that
China should have the right to buy it back in 1938, and with regard to the Antung-Mukden line,
in 1932, by paying the total cost--"all capital and all moneys owed on account of the line
and interest." And just here Japan is playing a wily game.

Consider, for example, the Antung-Mukden line just referred to, now regarded as a part of the
South Manchurian system. Although running through a very mountainous and sparsely settled area,
it is of immense importance to Japan {84} from a strategic standpoint, connecting Mukden as
it does with the Japanese railway in Korea leading directly to Fusan, and thus enabling Japan
to transport troops across her own territory to Manchuria without taking any of the risks involved
in getting out of her own waters and boundaries. The paramount military importance of the line
is further indicated by the fact that no one had thought of a commercial line here at all.
Simply as a matter of war-time necessity Japan stretched a 2-1/2-foot narrow-gauge line across
these mountain barrens to transport her troops in 1905. It is interesting to see, therefore,
how she has now interpreted her right to "work, maintain and improve"--especially "improve"--this
line. In October I spent two days travelling over its entire length (188 miles), most of the
time on the narrow-gauge part, and I was amazed to see on what a magnificent scale the new
broad-gauge substitute line is now building. In striking contrast to the traditional Japanese
tendency to impermanence in building, this line is constructed regardless of expense as if
to last for a thousand years. Tunnel after tunnel through solid rock, the most superb masonry
and bridges wherever streams intervene, the best of ballast to make an enduring roadbed--all
these indicate the style of the new, not "improved" but utterly reconstructed, line which is
building for Japan's benefit at China's expense--at China's expense directly if she buys it
back in 1932, at China's expense indirectly if she doesn't.

It will be remembered, of course, that according to her agreement with China, Japan was to
begin the work of "improving" the Antung-Mukden line within two years. Whether she was strangely
unable to make any sort of beginning in the period, or whether she purposely delayed it in
order to show her contempt for Chinese sovereignty in Manchuria, it is difficult to say; what
is known is only that the Mikado's government let its treaty rights lapse, and then when China
objected to a renewal, defied China, and proceeded with the work of "improvement" by what was
euphemistically termed "independent action."

{85}

Incidentally, it may be recalled just here that in the Portsmouth Peace Treaty Japan and Russia
jointly promised the rest of the world "to exploit their respective railways in Manchuria exclusively
for commercial and industrial purposes and in no wise for strategic purpose."

That Japan (in the event no other method of getting control of Manchuria appears) hopes to
make the railroads too expensive for the hard-pressed Peking government to buy back is self-evident.
She is looking far ahead, as those interested in the continuance of the Open Door policy must
also look far ahead. The real Open Door question is not a matter of the last four or five years
or of the next four or five years, but whether after a comparatively short time the Door is
to be permanently closed as in Korea. If it be said that Japan is only human in laying many
plans to gain so rich an empire, let it also be said that other nations are only human if they
wish to protect their own interests.

IV

For one thing, as has been suggested, Japan has a perfectly obvious plan to make the railways
too expensive for China to purchase when the lease expires, and just here some comparisons
may be in order. In Japan proper the government-owned railway stations are severe and inexpensive
structures in which not one yen is wasted for display and but little for convenience. When
I was in Tokyo, for example, Ex-Premier Okuma, in a public interview, called attention to the
disreputable condition and appearance of the leading station (Shimbashi) in the Japanese capital,
declaring that foreign tourists must inevitably have their general impressions of the country
unfavorably influenced by it, so primitive and uninviting is its appearance. But when it comes
to the South Manchurian Railway, also under the control of the Japanese Government (five sixths
of the investment held by the government and one {86} sixth by individual Japanese), one finds
an entirely different policy in force. Handsome stations, built to accommodate traffic for
fifty years to come, have been erected. In Dairen, "virtually the property of the railway company,"
the system has built a magnificent modern city--street railways, waterworks, electric light
plants, macadamized roads, and beautiful public parks. More than this, the railway company,
not content with the best of equipment for every phase of legitimate railway work, including
handsome stations and railway offices, such as Japan proper never sees, has also erected hotels
which, for the Orient, may well be styled sumptuous, in five leading cities of Manchuria. Comparatively
few travellers go to Mukden, and yet the hotel which the South Manchurian Railway has erected
there, for example, is perhaps not excelled in point of furnishing and equipment anywhere in
the Far East.

In buying back the railroads, therefore, China will be expected not only to pay for the railways
themselves but for all the irrelevant enterprises--hotels, parks, cities--in which the railway
companies have embarked; for lines "improved" beyond recognition, and for lines built not even
with a view to ultimate profit, but for their strategic importance to a rival and possibly
antagonist nation! As an Englishman said to me: "It's much the same as if I, a poor man, should
rent you a $1000 house, agreeing to stand the expense of some improvements when taking it back,
and you should spend $10,000 in improving my $1000 house--and largely to suit your own peculiar
business and purposes."

More than this, Japan, as I have said, is determined to keep her absolute monopoly on South
Manchurian railway facilities. Japan, under threat of arms, forced China to abandon the plan
for the Hsinmintun-Fakumen line after arrangements had been made with an English syndicate,
and later Japan and Russia on the same pretext prevented the proposed Chinchow-Aigun line across
Mongolia and Manchuria, although a hundred miles or more away from the South Manchurian line.

V

That Japan, then, holds the whip hand in Manchuria, and expects to continue to hold it, is
very clear. With China as yet too weak to protect herself, Japan is virtually master of the
situation. Let us ask then--since this is in an American book--whether the Open Door policy
is being enforced even now; to ask it of any one in Manchuria is to be laughed at. I tried
it once in a Standard Oil office and the man in front of me roared, and an unnoticed clerk
at my back, overhearing so absurd a question, was also unable to contain his merriment. It
is not a question of the fact of the shutting-up policy, Chinese and foreigners in Manchuria
will tell you; it is only a question as to the extent of that condition.

The truth is that the ink was hardly dry on the early treaties before the discriminations began.
The military railroads, which Japan was in honor bound to all the world to use only for war
purposes, were used for transporting Japanese goods before the military restrictions with regard
to the admission of other foreign goods were removed. The Chinese merchant and his patrons
were famishing for cotton "piece goods" and other manufactured products, and the Japanese goods
coming over were quickly taken up and a market for these particular "chops" or "trademarks"
(the Chinaman relies largely on the chop) was established. By the time European and American
goods came back their market in many cases {88} had already been taken away. In some cases,
too, their trademark rights had been virtually ruined by the closeness of Japanese imitation.
Even on my recent tour, among consuls of three nations, at Manchurian points, I did not find
one who did not mention some recent case of trademark infringement.

Then came the period of freight discriminations and rebates, when the Japanese (principally
the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, the one great octopus of Japanese business and commerce) secured
freight rates that practically stifled foreign business competitors. The railway company now
asserts that rebates (formerly allowed, it alleges, because of heavy shipments) are no longer
given; but in many cases the evil effects of the former rebating policy remain in that Japanese
traders were thus allowed to rush in during a formative period and establish permanent trade
connections.

Meanwhile, too, the relations between the Japanese Government and the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha
are so close that competitors are virtually in the plight of having to ship goods over a line
owned by a rival--without any higher tribunal to guarantee equality of treatment. As was recently
declared:

  "Two directors of the South Manchurian Railway are also directors of
  Mitsui Bussan Kaisha. The traffic manager of the railway is an
  ex-employee of Mitsui. The customs force at Dalny is not only
  entirely Japanese--no other foreigner in charge of a Chinese customs
  office employs exclusively assistants of his own nationality--but a
  number of the customs inspectors are ex-employees of Mitsui. The
  Mitsui company also maintains branches all through Manchuria in and
  out of treaty ports. In this way they escape the payment of Chinese
  likin, or toll taxes. The Chinese have agreed that these taxes--2
  per cent, on the value of the goods each time they pass to a new
  inland town--shall not be paid so long as they remain in the hands
  of the foreigner. American piece goods often pay likin tax, two,
  three, or four times, while the Japanese--sometimes legitimately by
  reason of their branch houses, sometimes illegally by bluffing
  Chinese officials or smuggling through their military areas--manage
  to escape likin almost altogether."

It may not be true that the Japanese customs officials at Dairen (the treaty provides that
China shall appoint a Japanese {89} collector at this port), ignorantly or knowingly, allow
Japanese goods to be smuggled through to Manchuria--although consuls of three nations a few
months ago thought the matter serious enough to suggest an investigation--but the evasion of
likin taxes in the interior is an admitted fact.

More flagrant still is another violation of international treaty rights. Under Chinese regulations
foreign merchants are not allowed to do business in the Manchurian interior away from the twenty-four
open marts, but it has been shown that several thousand Japanese are now stationed within the
prohibited area, and Japan's reply to the Chinese Viceroy's protest is that he should have
objected sooner and that it is now too late. Meanwhile, many Chinese merchants both in the
interior and along the South Manchurian Railway, themselves paying the regular likin and consumption
taxes, are finding themselves unable to compete with the Japanese, who refuse to pay these
taxes. Thus Japan is gradually rooting out the natives who stand in her way, and, day by day,
tightening her grip on the country.

She is advancing step by step as she did in Korea.

On the whole, the Mikado's subjects seem already to count themselves virtual masters of the
country. Inside their railway areas and concessions they have their own government; in the
majority of cases while in Manchuria I found it more convenient to use the Japanese telegraph
or the Japanese postal system than the Chinese; and where I stopped at the little towns along
the line it was a Japanese officer who came to inquire my name and nationality. When I was
in Mukden the German consul there had just had two Chinese meddlers arrested for spying on
his movements, only to find that they were acting under the direction of Japanese officials
who claimed immunity for them! The fact that they have their soldiers back of them, and that
they can be tried only in their own courts, also gives the Japanese unlimited assurance in
bullying the natives. At Mukden the Japanese bellboy struck my Chinese rickshaw {90} man to
get his attention. At Taolu some weeks ago some Japanese merchants who were there doing business
illegally (for it is not an open mart) were interfered with, with the result that the Japanese
authorities when I was in Mukden were preparing a formal demand for satisfaction, including
indemnity for any injury to an unlawful business!

Manifestly, the new masters of Manchuria propose to teach the natives their place. "If a Chinaman
is killed by a Japanese bullet," as a Chinaman of rank said to me in Manchuria, "the fault
is not that of the man who fired the bullet: the Chinaman is to blame for getting in the way
of it!"

VI

Those who apologize for Japanese aggressiveness in Manchuria, those who excuse or sympathize
with her evident purpose to make Manchuria walk the way of Korea, have but one argument for
their position--the pitiably abused and threadbare plea that the Japanese have won the country
by the blood they shed in the war with Russia. The best answer to this is also a quotation
from the distinguished and witty Chinaman just mentioned. "The Japanese," said he, "claimed
they were fighting Russia because she was preparing to rob China of Manchuria; now they themselves
out-Russia Russia. It is much as if I should knock a man down, saying, 'That man was about
to take your watch,' and then take the watch myself!"

The aptness of the simile is evident. My sympathy, and the sympathy of every other American
acquaintance of mine as far as I can now recall, was with Japan in her struggle because of
our hot indignation over Russian aggressiveness. But if Japan had said, "I am fighting to put
Russia out only that I may myself develop every identical policy of aggrandizement that she
has inaugurated," it is very easy to see with what different feelings we should have regarded
the conflict.

{91}

Moreover, Japan's legitimate fruits of victory do not extend to the control or possession of
Manchuria. As one of the ablest Englishmen met on my tour in the Far East pointed out, Japan's
purposes in inaugurating the war were four: (1) to get a preponderating influence in Korea;
(2) to get the control of the Tsushima Straits, which a preponderating influence in Korea would
give her; (3) to drive Russia from her ever-menacing position at Port Arthur; and (4) to arrest
(as she alleged) the increasing influence and power of Russia in Manchuria.

All these things she has gained. Furthermore, she now has actual possession of Korea. The menace
of a great Russian navy has been swept away. Again, she has become (with the consent of England)
the commanding naval power in the eastern Pacific; and she has gained an influence in South
Manchuria at least equal to that which Russia had previous to the war.

And yet one hears the plea that unless she gets Manchuria her blood will have been spilt without
result! Unless she can do more in the way of robbing China than she went to war with Russia
for doing, she will not be justified!

Among representatives of five nations with whom I discussed the matter in Manchuria I found
no dissent from the opinion that Japan will never get out of Manchuria, unless forced to do
so by a speedily awakened China or by the most emphatic and unmistakable attitude on the part
of the Powers. Chinese, English, Americans, Germans--all nationalities--in Manchuria agree
that thus far the way of Manchuria has been the way of Korea and that only favoring circumstances--a
rebellion fomented in China or whatever excuse may serve--is needed for the same end to be reached.

Then with Japanese customs duties to complete the shutting out of foreign goods, now made only
partially possible by the discrimination of a railway monopoly, and with the entire Chinese
Empire and foreign trade rights within it menaced by the added preeminence of Japan, the people
of Europe and America {92} may wake up too late to find out at last that the Open Door in Manchuria
is a matter of somewhat more general importance than the disturbances in Turkey or the change
of government in Portugal.

Be it said, in conclusion, however, that if the white nations take heed in time all this may
be prevented. China's waking up may serve the same purpose, but it is doubtful whether she
will develop sufficient military strength for this. In any case there need be and should be
no war, and in describing conditions as I found them my purpose is to help the cause of peace
and not that of bloodshed. For if the Powers realize the seriousness of the situation and give
evidence of such feeling to Japan that she will realize the bounds of safety, there will be
no trouble. But a continued policy of ignorance, indifference, or inactivity means that Japan
will probably go so far that she cannot retreat without a struggle. Truth is in the interest
of peace.

Mukden, Manchuria.

{93}

X

LIGHT FROM CHINA ON PROBLEMS AT HOME

I am here in China's ancient capital at one of the most interesting periods in all the four
thousand years that the Son of Heaven has ruled the Middle Kingdom. The old China is dying--fast
dying; a new China is coming into being so rapidly as to amaze even those who were most expectant
of rapid change. The dreams of twelve years ago, that have since seemed nothing but dreams,
are coming into actual realization.

Great reforms were then proposed--twelve years ago--and the Emperor sanctioned edict after
edict for their introduction. But their hour had not yet come.

I talked yesterday with one of the men whose voice was most potent at that time: a man whose
heart was then aflame with the idea of remaking China. They dared much, did these men, and
Tantsetung, a Chinaman of high rank and a Christian, consecrated himself on his knees to the
great task, with all the devotion of a Hannibal swearing allegiance to Carthage. But reaction
came. The Emperor was deposed and the Empress Dowager substituted, and Tantsetung and five
other leaders were beheaded.

Now, however, dying Tantsetung's brave words have already been fulfilled: "You may put me to
death, but a thousand others will rise up to preach the same doctrine." A new reign has come;
the Empress Dowager, dying, has been succeeded by a mere boy, whose father, the Prince Regent,
holds the imperial sceptre. But the sceptre is no longer all-powerful. {94} For the first time
in all the cycles of Cathay the voice of the people is stronger than the voice of the Throne.
Men do not hesitate any day to say things for which, ten years ago, they would have paid the
penalty with their heads.

There are many things that give one faith in the future of China, but nothing else which begets
such confidence as the success of the crusade against the opium habit. Four years ago, when
the news went out that China had resolved to put an end to the opium habit within ten years--had
started on a ten years' war against opium--there were many who scoffed at the whole project
as too ridiculous and quixotic even for praise; there were more who regarded it as praiseworthy
but as being as unpromising as a drunkard's swearing off at New Year's, while those who expected
success to come even in twice ten years hardly dared express their confidence among well-informed
people.

"If there is anything which all our contact with the Chinese has taught more unquestionably
than anything else, it is that the Chinaman will always be a slave to the opium habit." So
said a professedly authoritative American book on China, published only five years ago, and
to hold any other opinion was usually regarded as contradictory to common sense. "We white
Americans can't get rid of whiskey intemperance with all our moral courage and all our civilization
and all our Christianity. How then can you expect the poor, ignorant Chinaman to shake off
the clutches of opium?" So it was said, but to-day the most tremendous moral achievement of
recent history--China's victory over opium-intemperance already assured and in great measure
completed, not in ten years, but in four--stands out as a stinging rebuke to the slow progress
our own people have made in their warfare against drink-intemperance.

To shake off the opium habit when once it has gripped a man is no easy task. Officials right
here in Peking, for example, died as a result of stopping too suddenly after the {95} edict
came out announcing that no opium victim could remain in the public service. But a member of
the Emperor's cabinet, or Grand Council, tells me that 95 per cent, of the public officials
who were formerly opium-smokers have given up the habit, or have been dismissed from office.
Five per cent, may smoke in secret, but with the constant menace of dismissal hanging like
a Damocles sword over their heads, it may be assumed that even these few are breaking themselves
from the use of the drug.

Formerly it was the custom for the host to offer opium to his guests, but the Chinese have
now quite a changed public sentiment. Because they recognize that opium is ruining the lives
of many of their people, and lessening the efficiency of many others, because they regard it
as a source of weakness to their country and danger to their sons, it has become a matter of
shame for a man to be known as an opium-smoker, even "in moderation." To be free from such
an enervating dissipation is regarded as the duty not only to one's self and one's family,
but to the country as well: it is a patriotic duty. I saw a cartoon in a native Chinese paper
the other day in which there were held up to especial scorn and humiliation the weakling officials
who had lost their offices by reason of failure to shake off opium. In short, the opium-smoker,
instead of being a sort of "good fellow with human weaknessess"--and with possibilities, of
course, of going utterly to wreck--has become an object of contempt, a bad citizen.

The earnestness of the people has been strikingly illustrated in the great financial sacrifices
made by farmers and landowners in sections where the opium poppy was formerly grown. The culture
of the poppy in some sections was far more profitable than that of any other crop; it was,
in fact, the "money crop" of the people. In fact, to stop growing the opium poppy has meant
in some cases a decrease of 75 per cent, in the profit and value of the land. Farms mortgaged
on the basis of old land values, therefore, had to be sold; peasants who had {96} been home-owners
became homeless. And yet China has thought no price too great to pay in the effort to free
herself from this form of intemperance. Well may her leading men proudly declare, as one did
to me to-day: "While America dares not undertake the task of stopping the whiskey curse among
less than a hundred million people, we are stopping the opium curse among over four hundred
millions." It should also be observed that there is little drunkenness over here. At a dinner
party Friday evening my hostess thought it worth while to mention as a matter of general interest
to her guests (so rare is the occurrence) that she had seen a drunken Chinaman that day. I
have not yet seen one.

China is waking up, and I am glad she is. She is going into industrial competition with all
the world, and I am glad that she is. I believe that every strong and worthy nation is enriched
by the proper development of every other nation. But in this coming struggle the people whom
vice or dissipation has rendered weak sooner or later must go down before the men who, gaining
the mastery over every vicious habit, keep their bodies strong and their minds clear. In thunder
tones indeed does China's victory over opium speak to America. If we are to maintain our high
place among the nations of the earth, if we are to keep our leadership in wealth and industry,
we can do it only by freeing ourselves, as heroically as the yellow man of the Orient is doing
in this respect, from every enervating influence that now weakens the physical stamina, blunts
the moral sense, or befogs the brain.

The new China is devoting itself to a number of other reforms to which the people of America
may well give attention. The curse of graft among her public officials ("squeeze" it is called
over here) is one of the most deep-rooted cancers with which she has to contend. Officers have
been paid small salaries and have been allowed to make up for the meagreness of their stipends
by exacting all sorts of fees and tips. Before the coming parliament is very old, however,
it will {97} doubtless undertake to do away with the fee and "squeeze" system, stop grafting,
and put all the more important offices on a strict salary basis. Under the old fee system of
paying county and city officials in the United States, as my readers know, we have often let
enormous sums go into office-holders' pockets when they should have gone into improving our
roads and schools. The Chinese system not only has this weakness, but by reason of the fact
that the fees are not regularly fixed by law, as is the case with us, the way is opened for
numberless other abuses.

Currency reform is in China a matter hardly second in importance to the abolition of "squeeze."
There is no national currency here; each province (or state, as we would say) issues its own
money when it pleases, just as the different American states did two generations ago. I remember
hearing an old man tell of going from the Carolinas to Alabama about 1840 and having to pay
heavy exchange to get his Carolina money changed into Alabama money. So it is in China to-day.
You must get your bills of one bank or province changed whenever you go into another bank or
province, paying an outrageous discount, and a banking corporation will even discount a bill
issued by another branch of the same corporation. Thus a friend of mine with a five-dollar
Russia-Asiatic banknote from the Peking branch on taking it to the Russia-Asiatic's branch
at Hankow gets only $4.80 for it.

Nor is this all: All kinds of money are in circulation, the values constantly fluctuating,
and hundreds and thousands of men make a living by "changing money," getting a percentage on
each transfer. Take the so-called 20-cent pieces in circulation; they lack a little of weighing
one fifth as much as the 100-cent dollar; consequently it takes sometimes 110 and again 112
cents "small coin" to equal one dollar! The whole system is absurd, of course, and yet when
the government proposes to establish a uniform national currency it is {98} said that the influence
of these money-changers is so great as to make any reform exceedingly slow and difficult.

And yet let not my readers at home with this statement before them proceed too hastily to laugh
or sneer at China for unprogressiveness. For my part, as I have thought of this matter of money
transfer over here, the whole question has seemed to me to be on all-fours with our question
of land title transfers at home, and the more I have thought of it the firmer has the conviction
become. In fact, China's failure to adopt a modern currency system is perhaps even less a sinning
against light than our failure to adopt the Torrens system of registering land titles. The
man who makes a living by changing money and investigating its value is no more a parasite
than the man who makes a living changing titles or investigating their value; the hindrance
of trade and easy transfer of property is no more excusable in one case than the other; and
the 90 per cent, that China might save by a better system of money transfers is paralleled
by the 90 per cent, that we might save by a better system of title transfers.

Mr. Money-Changing Banker, fattening needlessly at the expense of the people, prevents currency
reform in China--yes, that is true. But before we assume superior airs let us see if Mr. Title-Changing
Lawyer, also fattening needlessly at the expense of the people, does not go to our next legislature
and stifle any measure for reforming land-title registration. And in saying this I am not to
be understood as making any wholesale condemnation of either Chinese bankers or our American
lawyers. The ablest advocates of the Torrens system I know are lawyers, men who say that lawyers
ought to be content with the really useful ways of earning money and not insist on keeping
up utterly useless and indefensible means of getting fees out of the people. Such lawyers,
indeed, deserve honor; my criticism is aimed only at those who realize the wisdom of a changed
system but are led by selfishness to oppose it.

{99}

After all, however, the most revolutionary and iconoclastic reform in the new China is the
changed policy of the schools. For thousands of years the education has been exclusively literary.
The aim has been to produce scholars. A thorough knowledge of the works of the sages and poets,
and the ability to write learned essays or beautiful verses, this has been the test of merit.
When Colonel Denby wrote his book on China five years ago he could say:

  "The Chinese scholar knows nothing of ancient or modern history
  (outside of China), geography, astronomy, zoology or physics. He
  knows perfectly well the dynastic history of his own country and he
  composes beautiful poems, and these are his only accomplishments."

But now all this is changed. The ancient system of selecting public officials by examination
as to classical scholarship was abolished the year after Colonel Denby's book was published,
and the new ideal of the school is to train men and women for useful living, for practical
things, and to combine culture with utility. Japanese education now has the same aim. There,
in fact, even the study of the languages is made to subserve a practical end. Where the American
boy studies Latin and soon forgets it, the Japanese boy studies English and continues to read
English and speak it on occasion the rest of his life, increasing his efficiency and usefulness
in no small measure as a result. In Japan, too, I found the keenest interest in the teaching
of agriculture to boys and domestic science to girls; and in all these things China is also
moving--blunderingly, perhaps, but yet making progress--toward the most modern educational ideas.

As a matter of fact, much as America has talked these last ten years of making the schools
train for more useful living, China and Japan have actually moved relatively much farther away
from old standards than we have done, and if they should continue the same rate of advance
for the next thirty years we may find their schools doing more for the efficiency {100} of
the people than our American schools are doing. And when I say this let not the cry go up that
I am decrying culture. Already I anticipate the criticism from men who cling to old standards
of education with even more tenacity than absurdly conservative China has done. I am not decrying
culture, but I am among those who insist that culture may come from a study of useful things
as well as from a study of useless things; that a knowledge of the chemistry of foods may develop
a girl's mind as much as a knowledge of chemistry that is without practical use; and that a
boy may get about as much cultural value from the knowledge of a language which does put him
into touch with modern life as from the knowledge of a language which might put him into touch
with ancient life but which he will probably forget as soon as he gets his diploma. Slow-moving
and tradition-cursed China and Japan, as we thought them a generation ago, have already committed
themselves to making education train for actual life. Has America given anything more than
a half-hearted assent to the idea?

The practical value of this article, I am reminded just here, has to do almost entirely with
legislation. You may wish to remind your member of the legislature of the parallel between
the wasteful and antiquated money-transfer system in China and the equally wasteful and antiquated
title-transfer system at home; you may wish to inform your member of the legislature and your
school officials of the advance of practical education in the Orient; and you may wish to remind
both your member of the legislature and your congressman of China's successful crusade against
the opium evil as an incentive for more determined American effort against the drink evil.
Let me conclude this letter, therefore, with two more facts with which you may prod your representatives
in Washington. (Which reminds me to remark, parenthetically, that every reform the Chinese
are getting to-day comes as a result of persistently bringing pressure on their officials;
and this {101} parenthetical observation may be as full of suggestion as any idea I have elaborated
at greater length.)

The two facts with which you may stir up your servants in Washington are just these:

First, in regard to the parcels post. Here in China the other day I mailed a package by parcels
post to another country for about half what it would have cost me to mail it from one county-seat
to another at home. How long are we going to be content to let so-called "heathen" countries
like China have advantages which so-called enlightened, progressive America is too slow to adopt?

Secondly, the tariff. Here in the hotel where I write this article one of the foremost journalists
in the Far East tells me that the average tariff-protected American industry sells goods to
Asiatic buyers at 30 per cent. less than it will sell to the people at home. Thirty per cent.,
he says, is the usual discount for Oriental trade. An electric dynamo which is sold in America
for $1000, for instance, is sold for Chinese trade at $550 or $600. Quite a number of times
on this trip have men told me that they can get American goods cheaper over here, after paying
the freight ten thousand miles, than we Americans can buy them at our own doors. For example,
a man told me a few weeks ago of buying fleece-lined underwear at half what it costs at home;
a missionary tells me that he saves 20 cents on each two-pound can of Royal baking powder as
compared with American prices; Libby's meats are cheaper in London than in San Francisco; harvesting
machinery made in Chicago is carried across land and sea, halfway around the world, and sold
in far-away Siberia for less than the American farmer can buy it at the factory gates.

And these are only a few instances. Hundreds of others might be given. How long the American
people are going to find it amusing to be held up in such fashion remains to be seen.

Peking, China.

{102}

XI

THE NEW CHINA: AWAKE AND AT WORK

Within eighteen months China will have a parliament or a revolution (she may have both). Such
at least is the prediction I am willing to risk, and it is one which I believe most foreigners
in Peking would indorse.

And the coming of a parliament, popular government, to guide the destinies of the vast empire
over which the Son of Heaven has reigned supreme for more than four thousand years--this is
only one chapter in the whole marvelous story, not of China Awakening, but of China Awake.
For the breaking with tradition, the acceptance of modern ideas, which but yesterday was a
matter of question, is now a matter of history. "China Breaking Up" was the keynote of everything
written about the Middle Kingdom ten years ago; "China Waking Up" has been the keynote of everything
treating of it these last five years.

Sir John Jordan, British Minister to China, does not exaggerate when he declares that in a
European sense China has made greater progress these last ten years than in the preceding ten
centuries. The criticism one hears most often now is, not that the popular leaders are too
conservative, but that they are if, anything, too radical; are moving, not too slowly, but
too rapidly.

Instead of the old charge that China is unwilling to learn what the West has to teach, I now
hear foreigners complain that a little contact with Europe and America gives a leader {103}
undue influence. "Let an official take a trip abroad and for six months after his return he
is the most respected authority in the empire." Instead of English missionaries worrying over
China's slavery to the opium habit, we now have English officials embarrassed because China's
too rapid breaking loose from opium threatens heavy deficits in Indian revenues. Instead of
the old extreme "states' rights" attitude on the part of the provinces, as illustrated by the
refusal of the others to aid Manchuria and Chihli in the war with Japan, the beginnings of
an intense nationalism are now very clearly in evidence. Even Confucius no longer looks backward.
A young friend of mine who is a descendant of the Sage (of the seventy-fifth generation) speaks
English fluently and is getting a thoroughly modern education, while Duke Kung, who inherits
the title in the Confucian line, is patron of a government school which gives especial attention
to English and other modern branches--by his direction. Significant, too, is the fact that
the ancient examination halls in Peking to which students have come from all parts of the empire,
the most learned classical scholars among them rewarded with the highest offices, have now
been torn down, and where these buildings once stood Chinese masons and carpenters are fashioning
the building that is to house China's first national parliament--unless the parliament comes
before this building can be made ready.

And so it goes. When a man wakes up, he does not wake up in a part of his body only, he wakes
up all over. So it seems with Cathay. The more serious problem now is not to get her moving,
but to keep her from moving too rapidly. In his Civic Forum address in New York three years
ago, Wu Ting Fang quoted Wen Hsiang's saying, "When China wakes up, she will move like an avalanche."
A movement with the power of an avalanche needs very careful guidance.

The one question about which every Chinese reformer's heart is now aflame is that of an early
parliament. By the imperial decree of 1908 a parliament and a constitution were {104} promised
within nine years. At that time there was little demand for a parliament, but with the organization
of the Provincial Assemblies in the fall of 1909 the people were given an opportunity to confer
together and were also given a taste of power. For the first time, too, they seem to have realized
suddenly the serious plight of the empire and the fact that since the deaths of the late Emperor
and Empress Dowager, and the dismissal of Yuan Shih-Kai by the Prince Regent acting for the
infant Emperor, the Peking government is without a strong leader. Consequently the demand for
a hastened parliament has grown too powerful to be resisted. True, when the delegates from
all the Provincial Assemblies voiced this demand to the Prince Regent last spring his reply
was the Edict of May 29, declaring that the programme outlined by their late Majesties, like
the laws of the Medes and Persians, could not be changed. Furthermore, the Throne remarked
significantly: "Let no more petitions or memorials upon this subject be presented to Us; Our
mind is made up."

Unfortunately for the peace of the Regent, however, John Chinaman is absurdly and obnoxiously
persistent on occasion. If you will not heed other appeals, he may commit suicide on your doorstep,
and then you are bewitched for the rest of your days, to say nothing of your nights. The talk
of an earlier parliament would not down even at the bidding of the Dragon Throne. Quietly unmanageable
delegations waited upon viceroys and compelled these high officials to petition for a reopening
of the question. Down in Kiang Su a scholar cut off his left arm and with the red blood wrote
his appeal. In Union Medical Hospital, here in Peking, as I write this, a group of students
are recovering from self-inflicted wounds made in the same cause. Going to the Prince Regent's,
they were told that the Prince could not see them. "Very well," they declared, "we shall sit
here till he does." At length the Prince sent word that, though he could not receive them,
he would consider their petition, and the students then sliced the {107} living flesh from
their arms and thighs as evidence of their earnestness, coloring their petition with their blood.

{105}

  The baby sovereign of one of the vastest and oldest of empires is
  shown here in the lap of his father. Prince Chun, the Regent.

{106}

  Burning a pile of pipes of reformed smokers at Hankow. The amazing
  success of China's crusade to free her people from the opium curse
  may be justly reckoned one of the greatest moral achievements in
  history--a challenge to our Western world.

{107 continued}

At this period of our drama there came upon the stage a new actor, at first little heeded,
but quickly becoming the dominating figure--the Tzucheng Yuan, or National Assembly. This body,
consisting of 100 nobles and men of wealth or scholarship appointed by the Throne, and 100
selected members of Provincial Assemblies approved by the viceroys, was expected to prove a
mere echo of the royal wishes. "It is evident that the government is to have a docile and submissive
assembly. Mediocrity is the chief characteristic of the members chosen." So wrote one of the
best informed Americans in China, some weeks before it assembled, October 3. Reuter's press
agent in Peking predicted through his papers that a few pious resolutions would represent the
sum total of the Assembly's labors.

And yet the first day that these two gentlemen went with me to look in on the Assembly we found
it coolly demanding that the Grand Council, or imperial cabinet, be summoned before it to explain
an alleged breach of the rights of Provincial Assemblies!

From the very beginning the course of this National Assembly in steadily gathering unexpected
power to itself has reminded me of the old States-General in France in the days just before
the Revolution, and I could not help looking for Danton and Robespierre among the fiery orators
in gown and queue on this occasion. Significantly, too, I now hear on the authority of an eminent
scholar that Carlyle's great masterpiece is the most popular work of historical literature
ever translated into Chinese. May it teach them some lessons of restraint as well as of aggressiveness!

Be that as it may, the Assembly has proved untamable in its demands for an early parliament,
not even the hundred government members standing up against the imperious pressure of public
opinion. In late October the Assembly {108} unanimously petitioned the Throne to hasten the
programme of constitutional government. The day this petition was presented it was currently
rumored in Peking that unless the Prince Regent should yield the people would refuse to pay
taxes. But he yielded. The trouble now is that he did not yield enough to satisfy the public,
and there is every indication that he will have to yield again, in spite of the alleged unalterableness
of the present plan, which allows a parliament in 1913 instead of in 1916, as originally promised.
A parliament within eighteen months seems a safe prediction as I write this.

It also seems safe to prophesy that the powers of the parliament will be wisely used. In local
affairs the Chinese practically established the rule of the people centuries before any European
nation adopted the idea. Nominally, the local magistrate has had almost arbitrary power, but
practically the control has been in the hands of the village elders. When they have met and
decided on a policy, the magistrate has not dared run counter to it. In much the same fashion,
governors and viceroys of provinces have been controlled and kept in check. Thus centuries
of practical self-government in local affairs have given the Chinese excellent preparation
for the new departure in national affairs. What is proposed is not a new power for the people
but only an enlargement or extension of powers they already exercise.

Parliamentary government is the one great accomplishment the Chinese people are now interested
in, because they propose to make it the tool with which to work out the other Herculean tasks
that await them. Happy are they in that they may set about these tasks inspired by the self-confidence
begotten of one of the greatest moral achievements of modern times. I refer, of course, to
the almost marvellous success of their anti-opium crusade which I have already discussed.

Mr. Frederick Ward, who has just returned from a visit to many provinces, finding in all the
same surprising success {109} in enforcing anti-opium regulations, declares: "It is the miracle
of the Middle Kingdom and a lesson for the world."'

China's next great task is the education of her people, and the remedy for pessimism here is
to compare her present condition, not with that of other nations, but with her own condition
ten years ago. A reported school attendance of less than one million (780,325 to be exact)
in a population of 400,000,000 does not look encouraging, but when we compare these figures
with the statistics of attendance a few years ago there is unmistakable evidence of progress.
In the metropolitan province of Chihli, for example, I find that there are now more teachers
in government schools than there were pupils six years ago, and the total attendance has grown
from 8000 to 214,637!

Even if China had not established a single additional school, however, or increased the school
attendance by even a percentage fraction, her educational progress these last ten years would
yet be monumental. For as different as the East is from the West, so different, in literal
fact, are her educational ideals at the present time as compared with her educational ideals
a decade ago. At one fell blow (by the Edict of 1905) the old exclusively classical and literary
system of education was swept away, made sacred though it was by the traditions of unnumbered
centuries. Unfortunately the work of putting the new policies into effect was entrusted to
the slow and bungling hands of the old literati; but this was a necessary stroke of policy,
for without their support the new movement would have been hopelessly balked.

The old education taught nothing of science, nothing of history or geography outside of China,
nothing of mathematics in its higher branches. Its main object was to enable the scholar to
write a learned essay or a faultless poem, its main use to enable him by these means to get
office. Under the old system the Chinese boy learned a thousand characters before he learned
their meaning; after this he took up a book {110} containing a list of all the surnames in
the empire, and the "Trimetrical Classics," consisting of proverbs and historical statements
with each sentence in three characters. Now he is taught in much the same way as the Western
boy. The old training developed the powers of memory; the new training the powers of reasoning.
The old education enabled the pupil to frame exquisite sentences; the new gives him a working
knowledge of the world. The old looked inward to China and backward to her past; the new looks
outward to other countries and forward to China's future. The old was meant to develop a few
scholarly officials; the new, to develop many useful citizens. "Even our students who go abroad,"
as a Peking official said to me, "illustrate the new tendencies. Formerly they preferred to
study law or politics; now they take up engineering or mining."

A consideration of Chinese education, however brief, would not be fair without mention of the
crushing handicap under which her people labor and must always labor so long as the language
remains as it is to-day--without an alphabet--separate and arbitrary characters to be learned
for each and every word in the language. This means an absolute waste of at least five years
in the pupil's school life, except in so far as memorizing the characters counts as memory-training,
and five years make up the bulk of the average student's school days in any country. If it
were not for this handicap and the serious difficulty of finding teachers enough for present
needs, it would be impossible to set limits to the educational advance of the next twenty years.

The school and the teacher have always been held in the highest esteem in China. Her only aristocracy
has been an aristocracy, not of wealth, but of scholarship; her romance has been, not that
of the poor boy who became rich, but of the poor boy who found a way to get an education and
became distinguished in public service. Under the old system, if the son of a hard-working
family became noted for aptness in the {111} village school, if the schoolmaster marked him
for a boy of unusual promise, the rest of the family, with a devotion beautiful to see, would
sacrifice their own pleasure for his advancement. He would be put into long robes and allowed
to give himself up wholly to learning, while parents, brothers, and sisters found inspiration
for their own harder labors in the thought of the bright future that awaited him. The difficulty
is that education has been regarded as the privilege of a gifted few, not as the right of all.
In a land where scholarship has been held in such high favor, however, once let the school
doors open to everybody and there is little doubt that China will eventually acquire the strength
more essential than armies or battleships: the power which only an educated common people can give.

China's next great purpose is to develop an efficient army. "Might is right" is the English
proverb that I have found more often on the tongues of the new school of Chinese than any other;
and we must confess that other nations seem to have tried hard enough to make her accept the
principle. In the old days there was a saying, "Better have no son than one who is a soldier."
To-day its new foreign-drilled army of 150,000 to 200,000 men is the boast of the Middle Kingdom,
and the army is said to be the most honestly administered department of the government. In
sharp contrast to the old contempt for the soldier, I now find one of the ablest journals in
the empire (the Shanghai National Review) protesting that interest in military training is
now becoming too intense: "Scarce a school of any pretensions but has its military drill, extending
in some instances as far as equipment with modern rifles and regular range practice, and we
regret to notice that some of the mission schools have so far forgotten themselves as to pander
to this militarist spirit."

It has often been said, of course, that the Chinese will not make good soldiers, but whether
this has been proved is open to question. Certainly, in view of their wretchedly inferior {112}
equipment, their failure to distinguish themselves in the war with Japan cannot be regarded
as conclusive. Take, for example, this description by an eye-witness:

  "Every tenth man [among the Chinese soldiers] had a great silk
  banner, but few were armed with modern weapons. Those who had rifles
  and modern weapons at all had them of all makes; so cartridges of
  twenty different sorts and sizes were huddled together without any
  attempt at classification, and in one open space all sorts were
  heaped on the ground, and the soldiers were fitting them to their
  arms, sometimes trying eight or ten before finding one to fit the
  weapon, throwing the rejected ones back into the heap."

No sort of efficiency on the part of the rank and file could have atoned for such criminal
indifference to equipment on the part of the officers. It seems to be the opinion of the military
authorities with whom I have talked that the Chinese army is now better manned than officered.
"Wherever there has been a breach of discipline, I have found it the officers' fault," an American
soldier told me.

The annexation of Korea, once China's vassal, by Japan, and that country's steadily tightening
grip on Manchuria have doubtless quickened China's desire for military strength. Moreover,
she wishes to grow strong enough to denounce the treaties by which opium is even now forced
upon her against her will, and by which she is forced to keep her tariff duty on foreign goods
averaging 5 per cent., alike on luxuries and necessities.

The fifth among China's Herculean labors is the cleansing of her Augean stables, and by this
I can mean nothing else than the abolition of the system of "squeeze," or graft, on the part
of her officials. In fact, no other reform can be complete until this is accomplished. The
bulk of every officer's receipts comes not from his salary, which is as a rule absurdly small,
but from "squeezes"--fees which every man who has dealings with him must pay. In most cases,
of course, these fees have been determined in a general way by long usage, but their acceptance
opens the way for innumerable abuses. High {113} offices are auctioned off. When I was in Manchuria
it was currently reported that the Governor of Kirin had paid one hundred thousand taels for
his office. When I was in New-chwang the Viceroy of Manchuria had just enriched himself to
the extent of several thousand taels by a visit to that port. The men who had had favors from
him or had favors to ask left "presents" of a rather substantial character when they called.
I learn from an excellent authority that when an electric lighting contract was let for Hankow
or its suburbs a short time ago the officials provided a squeeze for themselves of 10 per cent.,
but that the Nanking officials, in arranging for electric lights there, didn't even seem to
care whether the plant worked at all or not: they were anxious only to make a contract which
would net them 35 per cent, of the gross amount! Under such circumstances it is not surprising
to learn that many an office involving the handling of government revenues has its price as
definitely known as the price of stocks or bonds.

In private business the Chinese have a reputation for honesty which almost any other nation
might envy. With their quickened spirit of patriotism they will doubtless see to it that their
public business is relieved of the shameless disgrace that the "squeeze system" now attaches to it.

These are some of the big new tasks to which awakened China is addressing herself. Of course,
the continued development of her railways is no less important than any other matter I have
mentioned, but railway building cannot be regarded as one of China's really new tasks. For
years she has been alive to the importance of uniting the people of the different provinces
by means of more railways, more telegraph lines, and better postal service. The increase in
number of pieces of mail handled from 20,000,000 pieces in 1902 to 306,000,000 in the last
fiscal year bears eloquent testimony alike to the progress of the post office and to the growing
intelligence of the people. By telegraph the people of remotest Cathay now make their wishes
known to the Son of Heaven and the {114} Tzucheng Yuan; it was by telephone that this Tzucheng
Yuan, or National Assembly, requested the Grand Council of the Dragon Empire to appear before
it on the day of my first visit. The slow and stately camel caravans still come down from Mongolia
to Peking--I have seen them wind their serpentine length through the gates of the Great Wall
at Nankou as they have been doing for centuries past--but no longer do they bring the latest
news from the tribes about Desert Gobi. Across 3500 miles of its barren wastes an undaunted
telegraph line now "hums the songs of the glad parts of the earth."

It is no longer worth while to speculate upon the probability of a new China; the question
now is as to how the new China is going to affect the United States and the rest of the world.
From our Pacific Coast, China is our next-door neighbor, and vastly nearer in fact than any
map has ever indicated. Even New York City is now nearer to Shanghai and Hong Kong, in point
of ease of access, than she was to Chicago a century ago. How Japan's awakening has increased
that country's foreign trade all the world knows--and China has eight times the population
of Japan proper, and twenty-eight times the area, with almost fabulously valuable natural resources
as yet untouched! Some one has said that to raise the Chinese standard of living to that of
our own people would be (from the standpoint of markets) equivalent to the creation of four
Americas. The importance of bringing about closer commercial relations between the United States
and the Middle Kingdom can hardly be overestimated.

It is to be hoped, however, that in our desire to cultivate China's friendship we shall not
go to the length of changing our policy of excluding Asiatic immigration. To the thoughtful
student it must be plain that in the end such a change would lead only to disastrous reaction.
At the same time we might well effect a change in our methods of enforcing that policy. There
is nothing else on land or sea that the Celestial so much dreads as to "lose face," to be humiliated,
and it {115} is the humiliation that attaches to the exclusion policy rather than the policy
itself that is the great stumbling-block in the way of thorough cordial relations with America.
You wouldn't so much object to having the servant at the door report his master not at home
to visitors, but you would object to having the door slammed in your face; and John Chinaman
is just about as human as the rest of us. Moreover, our own friendliness for John should lead
us to adopt the more courteous of these two methods. Why should not our next exclusion law,
therefore, be based upon the idea of reciprocity, and provide that there shall be admitted
into America any year only so many Chinese laborers as there were American laborers admitted
into China the preceding year?

Finally, it must always be remembered that the awakening of China is a matter far more profound
than any statistics of exports or imports or railway lines or industrial development. The Dragon
Empire cannot become (as she will) one of the mightiest Powers of the earth, her four hundred
million people cannot be brought (as they will be brought) into the full current of the world's
activities, without profoundly influencing all future civilization. For its own sake Christendom
should seize quickly the opportunity offered by the present period of flux and change to help
mold the new force that it must henceforth forever reckon with. "The remedy for the yellow
peril, whatever that may be," as Mr. Roosevelt said while President, "is not the repression
of life, but the cultivation and direction of life." The school, the mission, the newspaper--these
are the agencies that should be used. Japan has thousands of teachers in China and scores of
newspapers, but no other nation is adequately active. The present kindly feeling for America
guarantees an especially cordial reception for American teachers, ministers, and writers, and
those who feel the call to lands other than their own cannot find a more promising field than
China.

Peking, China.

{116}

XII

A TRIP INTO RURAL CHINA

I can't get over (and I hope I never shall) my boyish interest in the great strange animals
that walk along behind the steam piano in the circus parades. And the animals that I like to
see most, I believe, are the elephants and the camels. The elephant has about him such quiet,
titanic, unboasting strength, such ponderous and sleepy-eyed majesty, as to excite my admiration,
but the camel has almost an equal place in my interest and esteem.

He is a funny-looking beast, is the camel, and he always reminds me of Henry Cates' story of
the very little boy who started making a mud man in the spring branch, but before he got the
second arm on, a storm came up, and when he came back his man had mysteriously disappeared.
But when Johnny went to town next day and for the first time in his life saw a one-armed man,
the whole mystery cleared, and rushing up, he demanded: "Why didn't you wait for me to finish
you?" Somehow the camel, like Johnny's mud man, always looks to me as if he got away before
he was finished. He is either a preliminary rough sketch accidentally turned loose on the world,
or else he got warped somehow in the drying process--great, quiet, shaggy, awkward, serene,
goose-necked, saddle-backed Old Slow and Steady!

{117}

  The destruction of China's mountain forests has made deserts of vast
  areas that were once fair and fruitful. The lower picture, showing
  Chinese pumping water by human treadmill, furnishes another
  illustration of the Orient's waste of labor.

{118}

  The camels that come down from Mongolia and wind their unhurried way
  from Chien Men Gate to the Gate of the Heavenly Peace form one of
  the most picturesque of the many picturesque sights in fascinating
  old Peking. The right-hand picture shows the author utilizing the
  most rapid means of transit in the mountains north of Peking.

{116 continued}

Let me confess, therefore, that hardly anything else on my entire tour has given me more pleasure
than the sight of the camel trains about Peking and all the way to the end of the Nankou Pass
in the mountains north of the ancient Chinese {119} capital. At the Pass this morning I saw
three such camel trains coming down from Mongolia and the Desert of Gobi: long, slow-moving,
romantic caravans that made me feel as if I had become a character in the Arabian Nights or
a contemporary of Kublai-Khan. One of the trains was the longest I have yet seen--twenty-five
or thirty camels, I should say, treading Indian-file with their usual unostentatious stateliness,
a wooden pin through each camel's nostrils from which a cord bound him to the camel next ahead,
a few strangely dressed drivers guiding the odd Oriental procession.

Nor were the camels the only strange travellers encountered by my party, a young Frenchman,
the German, and myself, as we rode our little donkeys mile after mile of rocky way from Nankou
village through the Pass. To begin with, we were ourselves funny-looking enough, for my donkey
was so small that he could almost walk under the belly of my saddle-horse at home, and my feet
almost touched the ground. The donkeys ridden by my friends were but little larger, and altogether
we looked very much like three clowns riding trick mules-- an effect somewhat heightened when
the Frenchman's donkey dropped him twice in the mud! It was our clothing, however, our ordinary
American and European trousers, coats, overcoats and hats, and the fact that we wore no queues
down our backs, that made us objects of curiosity to the Mongolian and Manchurian camel-drivers,
shepherds, horse-traders, and mule-pack drivers whom we met on the way, just as we were interested
in the sheepskin overcoats, strange hats, etc., which we found them wearing along with the
usual cotton-padded garments. These cotton-padded clothes are much like those heavily padded
bed-quilts ineptly called "comforts," and as the poor Chinese in the colder sections of the
empire cannot afford much fire in winter, they add one layer of cotton padding after another
until it is difficult for them to waddle along.

On the whole, the life and travel we found on our donkey-ride over the rough roads of Nankou
Pass were Biblical in their {120} very simplicity and primitiveness. Most of the men we meet
come from away up in Mongolia, where no railroad has yet gone, and the camels and the donkeys
(the donkeys in most cases larger than those we rode) bring down on their backs the Mongolian
products--wool, hides, grain, etc.--and carry back coal, clothing, and the other simple supplies
demanded by the rude peasantry of Mongolia. We met several pack trains of donkeys, sometimes
twenty-five or forty, I suppose, each carrying a heavy load of sacks on his back, or perhaps
big, well-packed baskets or goods-boxes carefully balanced. A horse over here will tote about
as much as a horse at home would pull. Then there were several immense droves of sheep: in
one drove two or three thousand, I estimated, and every sheep with a black face and a white
body, so that the general effect was not unlike seeing a big bin of black-eyed peas. The Chinese
raise immense numbers of long-eared black hogs, too, and drive them to market loose in the
same way that they drive their sheep. We also met two or three droves of mountain horses, a
hundred or more to the drove.

But it would have been well worth while to make the trip if we had gotten nothing else but
the view of and from the Great Wall at the end of the journey. About two thousand miles of
stone and brick, twenty-seven feet high, and wide enough on top for two carriages to drive
abreast, this great structure, begun two thousand years ago to keep the wild barbarian Northern
tribes out of China, is truly "the largest building on earth," and one of the world's greatest
wonders. It would be amazing if it wound only over plains and lowlands, but where we saw it
this morning it climbed one mountain height after another until the topmost point towered far
above us, dizzy, stupendous, magnificent. By what means the thousands and thousands of tons
of rock and brick were ever carried up the sheer steep mountainsides is a question that must
excite every traveller's wonder. Certainly no one who has walked on top of the great wall,
climbing among the clouds from one {121} misty eminence to another, as we did to-day, can ever
forget the experience.

Perhaps it was well enough, too, that the weather was not clear. The mists that hung about
the mountain-peaks below and around us; the roaring wind that shepherded the clouds, now driving
them swiftly before it and leaving in clear view for a minute peak after peak and valley after
valley, the next minute brushing great fog-masses over wall and landscape and concealing all
from view--all this lent an element of mystery and majesty to the experience not out of keeping
with our thought of the long centuries through which this strange guard has kept watch around
earth's oldest empire. Dead, long dead and crumbled into dust, even when our Christian era
began, were the hands that fashioned these earlier brick and laid them in the mortar, and for
many generations thereafter watchmen armed with bows and arrows rode along the battlements
and towers, straining their eyes for sight of whatever enemy might be bold enough to try to
cross the mighty barrier.

However unwise the spirit in which the wall was built, we cannot but admire the almost matchless
daring of the conception and the almost unparalleled industry of the execution. Beside it the
digging of our Panama Canal with modern machinery, engines, steam power and electricity, considered
simply as a feat of Herculean labor, is no longer a subject for boasting. To my mind, the very
fact that the Chinese people had the courage to conceive and attempt so colossal an enterprise
is proof enough of genuine greatness. No feeble folk could even have planned such an undertaking.

On this trip into the heart of China, however, I have noticed a number of things of decidedly
practical value in addition to the merely curious things I have just reported. In the first
place, I have been simply amazed to find that these Chinese farmers around Peking, Nankou,
and Tien-tsin are far ahead of some of our farmers in the matter of horsepower help in plowing.

{122}

Coming up from Peking to Nankou, I found farmers in almost every field busy with their fall
plowing or late grain sowing, and while there were dozens and dozens of three-horsepower plows,
I saw only one or two one-horsepower plows on the whole trip. This is all the more surprising
in view of the fact that labor is so cheap over here--15 cents a day American money would be
a good wage for farm hands--but evidently the farmers realize that although plow hands are
cheap, they must have two or three horses in order to get the best results from the soil itself.
One-horse plows do not put the land in good condition. With two, three, or four horses or donkeys
(they use large donkeys for plowing, even if small ones for riding) they get the land in good
condition in spite of the fact that they cannot get the good plows that any American farmer
may buy. I rode donkey-back through some farming country yesterday and watched the work rather
closely. The plows, like those in Korea, have only one handle, but are much better in workmanship.
Here they are made by the village carpenter-blacksmith, and have a large steel moldboard in
front, and below it a long, sharp, broad, almost horizontal point.

The Chinese farmers, it should also be observed in passing, fully realize the importance of
land rolling and harrowing. It is no uncommon sight to see a man driving a three-horse harrow.
It is also said that for hundreds of years the Chinese have practised a suitable rotation of
crops and have known the value of leguminous plants.

Nankou Pass, China.

{123}

XIII

FROM PEKING TO THE YANGTZE-KIANG

I shall have to go back to Peking some time. You must hurry out of the city, men tell you there,
or else ere you know it the siren-like Lure of the East will grip you irresistibly; and I felt
in some measure the soundness of the counsel. The knowledge that each day the long trains of
awkward-moving camels are winding their unhurried way from Chien-Men Gate to the Gate of the
Heavenly Peace, the yellow-tiled roofs of the Forbidden City gleaming ahead of them, while
to the left are the faint gray-blue outlines of the Western Hills--all this will be to me a
silent but perpetual invitation to go back.

The very life in the streets presents a panorama of never-failing interest. One can never forget
the throngs of Chinese men in gowns and queues (the wives wear the trousers over here!), the
nobles and officers in gorgeous silks and velvets; the fantastic head-dress of the Manchu ladies,
and the hobbling movements of the Chinese women hampered by ruined feet; the ever-hurrying
rickshaws with perspiring, pig-tailed coolies in the shafts; the heavy two-wheeled Peking carts
like half-sized covered wagons; the face of some fashionable foreign or native woman glimpsed
through the glass windows of her sedan chair, eight runners bearing on their shoulders their
human burden; the long lines of shop fronts with such a pleasing variety of decorative color
as to make one wonder why artists have not made them famous; the uniformed soldiers from every
nation on the earth to guard the various legations, and {124} Chinese soldiers with cropped
hair and foreign clothing. The strange street noises, too, will linger in one's memory ever
after: the clattering hoofs of fleet Mongolian ponies, the jingling bells of the thousands
of sturdy little saddle donkeys, the rattling of the big cowbells on the dusty camels, the
clanging gong of a mandarin's carriage, outriders scurrying before and behind to bear testimony
to his rank, and the sharp cries of peddlers of many kinds, their wares balanced in baskets
borne from their shoulders.

Or perhaps there is a blaze in the street ahead of you. Some man has died and his friends are
burning a life-sized, paper-covered horse in the belief that it will be changed into a real
horse to serve him in the Beyond; and imitations of other things that might be useful to him
are burned in the same way.

Or perhaps a marriage procession may pass. A dozen servants carry placards with emblems of
the rank of the family represented by the bride or groom, numerous other servants bear presents,
and the bride herself passes by concealed in a gorgeous sedan chair borne on the shoulders
of six or eight coolies.

Fascinating as it is for its present-day interest, however, Peking is even richer in historic
interest. And by historic in China is not meant any matter of the last half-hour, such as Columbus's
discovery of America or the landing at Plymouth Rock; these things to the Chinaman are so modern
as to belong rather in the category of recent daily newspaper sensations along with the Pinchot-Ballinger
controversy or the Thaw trial. If he wishes something genuinely historic, he goes back three
or four thousand years. For example, a friend of mine, at a little social gathering in New
England some time ago, heard a young Chinese student make a talk on his country. Incidentally
he was asked about a certain Chinese custom. "Yes,"' he answered, "that is our custom now,
since we changed. But it has not always been so. We did the other way up to four or five centuries
before Christ." Whereupon the audience, amazed at the utterly casual mention of an event two
thousand {125} years old as if it were a happening of yesterday, was convulsed in merriment,
which the young Chinaman was entirely unable to understand.

When Christ was born Peking (or what is now Peking, then bearing another name), having centuries
before grown into eminence, had been destroyed, rebuilt, and was then entering upon its second
youth. About the time of the last Caesars it fell into the hands of the Tartars, who gave place
to the Mongols after 1215. It was during the reign of the Mongol Emperor, Kublai Khan, that
Marco Polo visited his capital, then called Cambulac. Seventy-three years before Columbus discovered
America the Emperor Yung-loh, whose tomb I saw near Nankou, built the great wall that surrounds
the Tartar City to this day--forty feet high, wide enough on top for four or five carriages
to drive abreast, and thirteen miles around.

Yet the history which the foreigner in Peking is likely to have most often in mind is really
very recent. For it has been only ten years and a few months since the famous Boxer outbreak.
The widely current idea is that this Boxer movement originated in anti-missionary sentiment,
but this is not borne out by the facts. The late Col. Charles Denby, long American Minister
to China, pointed out very clearly that the main cause was opposition to the land-grabbing
policies of European nations. Once started, however, it took the form of opposition to everything
foreign--missionaries and non-missionaries alike. I passed the old Roman Catholic Cathedral
the other day in company with a friend who gave me reminiscences of the siege that sounded
like echoes of the days of the martyrs; stories of Chinese Christian converts butchered like
sheep by their infuriated fellow countrymen. When the Pei-tang, in another part of the city,
was finally rescued by foreign troops, the surviving Christians and missionaries were dying
of starvation; they had become mere wan, half-crazed skeletons, subsisting on roots and bark.

The heroism shown by many of the Chinese Christian converts {126} during this Boxer uprising
has enriched the history not only of the church, but of mankind; for what man of us is not
inspired to worthier things by every high deed of martyrdom which a fellowman anywhere has
suffered? Into the Pei-tang the Boxers hurled arrow after arrow with letters attached offering
immunity to the Chinese converts if they would abandon their Christian leaders, but not even
starvation led one to desert. Colonel Denby estimated that in the whole empire 15,000 Chinese
Christians were butchered and that only 2 per cent of them abandoned their faith. A missionary
told me the other day of one family who took refuge in a cave, but when finally smoked out
by suffocating flames, refused life at the cost of denying their Master, and went to death
singing a hymn in Chinese, "Jesus Is Leading Me." At Taiyan-fu an especially touching incident
occurred: Five or six young girls, just in their teens, were about to be killed, when a leader
intervened, declaring: "It is a pity to slaughter mere children," and urged them to recant.
Their only answer was: "Kill us quickly, since that is your purpose; we shall not change."
And they paid for their faith with their lives.

I am writing this down on the Yangtze-Kiang (Kiang means river in Chinese), having boarded
a steamer at Hankow, the famous Chinese industrial centre, about 600 miles south of Peking.
About Hankow I found farming much more primitive than that around Peking, Nankou, and Tientsin.
Instead of the three and four horse plows I found in North China, the plowmen about Hankow
seem to rely chiefly on a single ox. The farms, too, are much smaller. No one here speaks of
buying a "farm"; he buys a "field." In Kwang-tung there is a saying that one sixth of an acre
"will support one mouth." As nearly as I can find out, the average wages paid farm laborers
is about 10 cents (gold) a day. The average for all kinds of labor, a member of the Emperor's
Grand Council tells me, is about 35 to 38 cents Mexican, or 15 to 18 cents gold a day.

In forming a mental picture of a rural scene anywhere in {127} China or Japan there are three
or four things that must always be kept in mind. One is that there are no fences between fields;
I haven't seen a wooden or wire farm-fence since I left America. A high row or ridge separates
one field from another, and nothing else. In the next place, there are no isolated farm-houses.
The people live in villages, from ten to fifty farmhouses grouped together, and the laborers
go out from their homes to the fields each morning and return at evening. The same system,
it will be remembered, prevails in Europe; and as population becomes denser and farms grow
smaller in America, we shall doubtless attempt to group our farm homes also. Even now, much
more--vastly more--might be done in this respect if our farmers only had the plan in mind in
building new homes. Where three or four farms come near together, why should not the dwellings
be grouped near a common centre? It would mean much for convenience and for a better social
life. Another notable difference from our own country is the absence of wooden buildings or
of two-story buildings of any kind. In this part of China the farmhouse is made of mud bricks,
or mud and reeds, or else of a mixture of mud and stone, and is usually surrounded by a high
wall of the same material.

Again, there are no chimneys. While my readers are basking in the joyous warmth of an open
fire these wintry nights they may reflect that the Chinaman on this side of the earth enjoys
no such comfort. Enough fire to cook the scanty meals is all that he can afford. To protect
themselves against cold, as I have already pointed out, the poor put on many thicknesses of
cotton-padded cloth. The rich wear furs and woolens. When a coolie has donned the maximum quantity
of cotton padding he is about as nearly bomb-proof as an armor-plated cruiser. Certainly no
ordinary beating would disturb him.

At this time of the year (the late fall) farmers are busy plowing and harrowing. On my last
Sunday in Peking I went out to the Temple of Agriculture, where each spring the Emperor or
Prince Regent comes and plows sixteen rows, the purpose {128} being to bear testimony to the
high honorableness of agriculture and its fundamental importance to the empire. This happens,
as I have said, in early spring, but it is in late fall that Chinese do most plowing. They
are also busy now flailing grain on ancient threshing-floors of hard-baked earth, or grinding
it in mills operated by a single donkey.

In this part of China the mound-like graves of the millions--possibly billions--of the Chinese
dead are even more in evidence than in the northern provinces. Let China last a few more thousand
years with its present customs and the country will be one vast cemetery, and the people will
have to move away to find land to cultivate. As not one grave in a thousand is marked by a
stone of any kind, it would seem as if they would not be kept up, but the explanation is that
each Chinaman lives and dies hard by the bones of his ancestors. The care of their graves is
one of life's most serious duties. Even when John goes to America, half his fortune, if need
be, will be used to bring his body back to the ancestral burying ground.

In a land so given over to superstition I have no doubt that the most horrible disasters would
also be expected as the penalty for interfering with any grave. It seems odd that a people
who had a literature centuries before our Anglo-Saxon ancestors emerged from barbarism should
now be the victims of superstitions almost as gross as those prevailing in Africa; but such
are the facts. Chang Chih-tung, who died a few months ago, was one of the most progressive
and enlightened Chinese statesmen of the last hundred years, but not even a man of his type
could free himself from the great body of superstition handed down from generation to generation.

In Wuchang I crossed an amazingly steep, high hill known as "Dragon Hill," because of the Chinese
belief that a dragon inhabits it. This long hill divides the city into two parts; every day
hundreds and sometimes possibly thousands of people must climb up one side and down the other
in getting from one part of the town to another. Therefore, when Chang {129} Chih-tung was
Viceroy in Hankow he decided that he would make a cut in this hill and save the people all
this trouble. And he did. Very shortly thereafter, however, he sickened of a painful abscess
in his ear, and the Chinese doctors whom he consulted were quick in pointing out the trouble.
By making the cut in the hill, they told him, he had offended the earth dragon which inhabits
it, and unless the cut were filled up Chang might die and disaster might come upon the city.
Of course, there was nothing for him to do but to restore the ancient obstruction to travel,
and so it remains to this day.

In sight from Dragon Hill is another hill known as Tortoise Hill, supposed to be inhabited
by a tortoise spirit or devil, and at its foot are some lakes in which it has long been said
that the tortoise washes its feet. Now these lakes are on property owned by the Hanyang Steel
& Iron Works and they decided a few years ago that they would either drain off the water or
else fill up the lakes so as to get more land. But before they got started the Chinese civil
authorities heard of it and notified the Hanyang Company that such a proceeding could not be
tolerated. The tortoise would have nowhere to wash his feet, and would straightway bring down
the wrath of Heaven on all the community!

It is from superstitions such as these that the schools must free the Chinese before the way
can be really cleared for the introduction of Christianity. The teacher is as necessary as
the preacher. And the task of getting the masses even to the point where they can read and
write is supremely difficult. The language, it must be remembered, has no alphabet. Each word
is made not by joining several letters together, as with us, but by making a distinct character--each
character an intricate and difficult combination of lines, marks, and dots. Or perhaps the
word may be formed by joining two distinct characters together. For example, to write "obedience"
in Chinese you write together the characters for "leaf" and "river," the significance being
that true obedience is as trusting {130} and unresisting as the fallen leaf on the river's
current. My point is, however, that for each word a distinct group of marks (like mixed-up
chicken tracks) must be piled together, and the task of remembering how to recognize and write
the five thousand or more characters in the language would make an average American boy turn
gray at the very thought. My friend Doctor Tenney, of the American Legation in Peking, asserts
that at least five years of the average Chinese pupil's school life might be saved if the language
were based on an alphabet like ours instead of on such arbitrary word-signs.

There is one thing that must be said in favor of the Chinese system of education, however,
and that is the emphasis it has always laid on moral or ethical training. The teaching, too,
seems to have been remarkably effective. Take so basic a matter as paying one's debts, for
example: it is a part of the Chinaman's religion to get even with the world on every Chinese
New Year, which comes in February. If he fails to "square up" at this time he "loses face,"
as his expressive phrase has it. He is a bad citizen and unpopular. Consequently all sorts
of things may be bought cheaper just before the New Year than any other time. Every man is
willing to make any reasonable sacrifice, selling his possessions at a great discount if necessary,
rather than have a debt against him run over into the new period--an excellent idea for America!

I do not know whether Confucianism is responsible for this particular policy, but at any rate
the fact remains that outside the Bible the world has never known a more sublime moral philosophy
than that of Confucius. It means much, therefore, that every Chinese pupil must know the maxims
and principles of the great sage by heart. Moreover, as Confucius did not profess to teach
spiritual truth, the missionaries in China are fast coming to realize that it is both unnecessary
and foolish to urge the people to abandon Confucianism. The proper policy is to tell the Chinese,
"Hold on to all that is good and true in Confucius. There is very little in his teachings that
is {131} in conflict with religion, and Christian leaders now recognize him as one of the greatest
moral forces the world has known. But to the high moral teaching of the Chinese master you
must add now the moral teachings of Christianity and, more essential still, the great body
of spiritual truth which Confucianism lacks." The grand old man among Chinese missionaries,
Dr. W. A. P. Martin, who has been in the work since 1850, said to me in Peking, "Some of the
best Christians are now the best Confucianists."

Confucianism, as any one can see by reading the books, is no more a substitute for Christianity
than Proverbs is for St. John's Gospel. As Doctor Brewster, another missionary, says, "We do
not ask an American scholar to renounce Plato to become a Christian; why should we ask a Chinaman
to renounce Confucius?"

Confucius lived five centuries before Christ, and at his old home in Shantung are the graves
alike of his descendants and his ancestors--the oldest family burying ground in the world.
"No monarch on earth can trace back his lineage by an unbroken chain through so many centuries."
In Peking I was so fortunate as to form a friendship with a descendant of Confucius of the
seventy-fifth generation--Mr. Kung Hsiang Koh--a promising and gifted senior in the Imperial
College of Languages. At my request he inscribed a scroll for me in beautiful Chinese characters,
representing one of my favorite quotations from his world-famous ancestor. I give an English
translation herewith:

  "Szema-New asked about the Superior Man. The Master said, 'The
  superior man is without anxiety or fear.'

  "'Being without anxiety or fear,' said New, 'does this constitute
  what we should call the superior man?'

  "The Master replied, 'When a man looks inward and finds no guilt
  there, why should he grieve? or what should he fear?'"

On board S. S. Kutwo, Yangtze River, China.

{132}

XIV

SIDELIGHTS ON CHINESE CHARACTER AND INDUSTRY

Having mentioned some of the good points of John Chinaman (and he has many excellent points),
it is also necessary to point out some of his shortcomings. The trouble with John is that he
had some tiptop ancestors, but he fell into the habit of looking backward at them so continuously
that he has failed, in recent centuries, to make any further progress. He had a civilization
and a literature when our white ancestors were wearing skins; but there he stopped, so that
we have not only caught up with him, but have passed him almost immeasurably. The result is
that now China is waking up to find that a great number of ancient abuses, both in public and
private life, must be sloughed off if she is to become a genuinely healthy modern nation.

Of what has been accomplished with reference to opium I have already written at length. But
this is only a beginning.

With the opium evil under foot, China will still have other dragons to slay--if I may use the
term dragon in an evil sense in a country whose national emblem is the dragon. For one thing,
slavery still exists in China. A friend of mine in Peking told me of an acquaintance, an educated
Chinaman, who bought a young girl two years ago for two hundred taels (about $120 gold), and
says now he would not take one thousand two hundred (about $720 gold). Already, however, a
vigorous sentiment for the complete abolition of slavery has {133} developed over the empire.
About six months ago an imperial edict was issued prohibiting slave trading, decreeing that
child-slaves should become free on reaching the age of twenty-five, and opening ways for older
slaves to buy their freedom. The peons or slaves of the Manchu princes were, however, excepted
from the terms of this edict.

Foot-binding also continues a grievous and widespread evil. Formerly every respectable Chinese
father bound the feet of all his girls. Fathers who did not were either degraded men, reckless
of public opinion, or so bitterly poor as to require the services of their daughters in unremitting
manual labor. Consequently, a natural foot on a woman became a badge of social inferiority:
a Chinaman of prominence wouldn't marry her. Now, however, many of the wealthier upper-class
Chinamen in the cities are letting their girls grow up with unbound feet, and this custom will
gradually spread until the middle and lower classes generally, seeing that fashion no longer
decrees such a barbaric practice, will also abandon it.

The progress of the reform, however, is by no means so rapid as could be wished. A father with
wealth may risk getting a husband for his daughter even though she has natural feet, but ambitious
fathers among the common people fear to take such risks. An American lady whose home I visited
has a servant who asked for two or three weeks' leave of absence last summer, explaining that
he wished to bind the feet of his baby daughter. My friend, knowing all the cruelty of the
practice, and having a heart touched by memories of the heart-rending cries with which the
poor little creatures protest for weeks against their suffering, pleaded with the servant to
let the child's feet alone. But to no effect. "Big feet no b'long pretty," he said, and went
home unconvinced.

"The feet," according to the brief statement of ex-Minister Charles Denby, "are bandaged at
an age varying from three to five years. The toes are bent back until they penetrate the sole
of the foot, and are tightly bound in that position. The {134} parts fester and the toes grow
into the foot." The result is that women grow up with feet the same size as when they were
children, and the flesh withers away on the feet and below the knees. Throughout life the fashion-cursed
girl and woman must hobble around on mere stumps. When you first see a Chinese woman with bound
feet you are reminded of the old pictures of Pan, the imaginary Greek god with the body of
a man and the feet of a goat. The resemblance to goat's feet is remarkably striking. As the
women are unable to take proper exercise--except with great pain--there is little doubt that
their physical strength has been seriously impaired by this custom, and that the stamina of
the whole race as well has suffered in consequence.

Whenever a foreigner--it is the white man who is "the foreigner" over here--begins a comparison
or contrast between the Chinese and the Japanese, he is sure to mention among the first two
or three things the vast difference in moral standards with regard to family life. The cleanness
of the family life in China, he will tell you, is one of the great moral assets of the race,
while the contrary conditions largely prevailing in Japan would seem to threaten ultimate disaster
to the people.

As in most Asiatic countries, however, there is in China no very definite moral sentiment against
a man's marrying more than one wife. In fact, it is regarded not as a question of morals but
of expense. It is one of the privileges of the Chinaman who can afford it, and the No. 1 wife
is often glad for her husband to take a No. 2 and a No. 3 wife, because the secondary wives
are somewhat under her authority and relieve her of much work and worry. A few months ago a
Chinaman in Hankow had a very capable No. 2 wife who was about to quit him to work for some
missionaries, whereupon Wife No. 1, Wife No. 3, and the much-worried husband all joined in
a protest against the household's losing so capable a woman.

All these three wives were in subjection to the husband's mother, however, until the old lady
took cholera last year, and {135} in a day or so was dead. The prevalence of awful scourges,
such as cholera and bubonic plague, is another evil which the new China must conquer. These
diseases are due mainly, of course, to unsanitary ways of living, and when you have been through
a typical Chinese city you wonder that anybody escapes. The streets are so narrow that with
outstretched arms you can almost reach from side to side, and the unmentionable foulness of
them often smells to heaven.

Moreover, if you have the idea that the typical Chinaman is content to live only on rice, prepare
to abandon it. Hogs are more common in a village of Chinamen than dogs in a village of negroes;
and, in some cases, almost equally at home in the houses. I saw a Chinese woman in Kiukiang
feeding a fat porker in the front room, while, in the narrow streets around, hogs and dogs
were wandering together or lying contentedly asleep in the sunshine by the canal bank. In fact,
the ancient Chinese character for "home" is composed of two characters--"pig" and "shelter"--a
home being thus represented as a pig under a shelter!

Small wonder that cholera is frequent, smallpox a scourge, and leprosy in evidence here and
there. Quite recently a couple of mission teachers of my denomination have died of smallpox:
they "didn't believe in vaccination." Shanghai, as I write this, is just recovering from a
bubonic plague scare. There were one or two deaths from the plague among the Chinese, whereupon
the foreigners put into force such drastic quarantine regulations that the Chinese rebelled
with riots. The whites then put their cannon into position, the volunteer soldiers were called
out, and it looked at one time as if I should find the city in a state of bloody civil war,
but fortunately the trouble seems now to have blown over.

Unfortunately the ignorant Chinese put a great deal more faith in patent medicines and patent
medicine fakirs than they do in approved sanitary measures. It is interesting to find that
American patent medicines discredited at home by {136} the growing intelligence of our people
have now taken refuge in the Orient, and are coining the poor Chinaman's ignorance into substantial
shekels. Worst of all, some of the religious papers over here are helping them to delude the
unintelligent, just as too many of our church papers at home are doing.

In Shanghai I picked up a weekly publication printed in Chinese and issued by the Christian
Literature Society, and asked what was the advertisement on the back. "Dr. Williams's Pink
Pills for Pale People," was the answer.

One of the most peculiar things about China is the existence of almost unlimited official corruption
side by side with high standards of honesty and morality in ordinary business or private life.
I have already referred to the system of "squeeze" or graft by which almost every official
gets the bulk of his earnings. In Shanghai it is said that the Taotai, or chief official there,
paid $50,000 (gold) for an office for which the salary is only $1500 (gold) a year.

Against this concrete evidence of official corruption place this evidence of a high sense of
honor in private life. A young Chinaman, employed in a position of trust in Hankow, embezzled
some money. The company, knowing that his family was one of some standing, notified the father.
He and his sons, brothers of the thief, went after the young fellow and killed him with an
ax. The community as a whole approved the action, because in no other way could the father
free his family from the disgrace and ostracism it would have incurred by having an embezzler
in it.

{137}

{138}

  This is the upper part of a scroll kindly written for the author by
  Mr. Kung Hsiang Koh (or Alfred E. Kung as he signs himself in
  English). Mr. Kung is a descendant of Confucius (Kung Fut-zu) of the
  seventy-fifth generation, and the complete quotation of which the
  scroll is a reproduction in Chinese characters reads as follows:

  "Ssu-ma Niu asked for a definition of the princely man."

  "The Master said: 'The princely man is one who knows neither grief
  nor fear.' 'Absence of grief and fear?' said Niu, 'Is this the mark
  of a princely man?' The Master said, 'If a man look into his heart
  and find no guilt there, why should he grieve? Or of what should he
  be afraid?'"

{136 continued}

The Yangtze River trip from Hankow to Shanghai, mentioned in my last letter, I found very interesting.
We were three days going the 600 miles. The Yangtze is the third largest river in the world
and navigable 400 miles beyond Hankow, or 1000 miles in all. It would be navigable much farther
but for a series of waterfalls. Nearly thirty miles wide toward the mouth, its muddy current
discolors the ocean's blue forty miles out in the Pacific, I am told. In fact, I think {139}
it must have been that distance that I last saw the great turgid stream off the Shanghai harbor.
Even as far up as Hankow the river becomes very rough on windy days. Consequently, when I wished
to go across to Wuchang, I found that the motor boat couldn't go, so tempestuous were the waves,
but a rather rickety looking little native canoe called a "sampan," with tattered sails, bobbing
up and down like a cork, finally landed me safely across the three or four miles of sea-like
waves. All the way from Hankow to Peking one encounters all sorts of Chinese junks and other
odd river-craft. In many cases they look like the primitive Greek and Roman boats of which
one sees pictures in the ancient histories. The Chinese are excellent sailors and manage their
boats very skilfully. The greatest canal that the world knows was begun by them in the time
of Nebuchadnezzar and finished thirteen centuries ago.

Until very recently, however, the Chinese have not wanted railways. Coming from Hankow to Shanghai
I passed in sight of the site of the old Woosung-Shanghai Railway, the first one built in China;
but before it got well started the people tore it up and threw it into the river.

In Shanghai I met his Excellency Wu Ting Fang, formerly Minister to the United States, and
he told me of his troubles in building, under Li Hung Chang's directions, what turned out to
be the first permanent railway in China. This was less than twenty-five years ago. Li Hung
Chang said to Mr. Wu: "If we ask the authorities to let us build a railway, they'll refuse,
so I am going to take the responsibility myself. The only way to overcome the prejudice against
railways is to let the people see that a railroad isn't the evil they think it is." Accordingly,
Mr. Wu set to work on the Tongshan Railway. He built first ten miles, then twenty more. Then
as the road was working well, and its usefulness demonstrated, he and Li Hung Chang thought
they might get permission from the Throne to construct a line from Tientsin to Peking. Successful
in this effort, they went ahead with the survey and {140} imported from America the materials
for building the line--and then came a new edict forbidding them to proceed! The matter had
been taken up by the viceroys and governors, and 80 per cent, of them had opposed building
the line!

Now, less than twenty-five years later, John Chinaman is calling for railroads in almost every
non-railroad section, and the railroads already built are paying handsome dividends. Everybody
seems to travel. Besides the first-class and second-class coaches, most trains carry box-cars,
very much like cattle-cars and without seats of any kind, for third-class passengers. And I
don't recall having seen one yet that wasn't chock full of Chinamen, happy as a similar group
of Americans would be in new automobiles. A missionary along the line between Hankow and Peking
says that he now makes a 200-mile trip in five hours which formerly took him nineteen days.
Before the railway came he had to go by wheelbarrow, ten miles a day, his luggage on one side
the wheel, and himself on the other. Thousands of these wheelbarrows, doing freight and passenger
business, are in use in Shanghai and the regions roundabout. A frame about three feet wide
and four feet long is built over and around the wheel, and a coolie will carry as much as half
a ton on one of them.

Along the Yangtze a considerable quantity of cotton is grown, and I went out into some of the
fields in the neighborhood of Shanghai. The stalks were dead, of course, and in some cases
women were pulling them up for fuel, but I could see that the Chinese is a poorer variety than
our American cotton, and is cultivated more poorly. Instead of planting in rows as we do, the
peasants about Shanghai broadcast in "lands" eight or ten feet wide, as we sow wheat and oats.
About Shanghai they do not use the heavier two and three horse plows I found about Peking;
consequently the land is poorly broken to begin with, and the cultivation while the crop is
growing amounts to very little. No sort of seed selection or variety breeding has ever been
attempted. No wonder that {141} the stalks are small, the bolls small and few in number, and
the staple also very short.

From my observation I should say that with better varieties and better cultivation China could
easily double her yields without increasing her acreage. There is likely to be some increase
in acreage, too, however, because farmers who have had to give up poppy culture are in search
of a new money crop, and in most cases will take up cotton.

As I have said before, the coolie class wear padded clothes all winter, and as they have no
fire in their houses, they naturally have to wear several suits even of the padded sort. I
remember a speech Congressman Richmond P. Hobson made several years ago in which he spoke of
having seen Chinamen with clothes piled on, one suit on top of another, until they looked like
walking cotton bales. Some of his hearers may have thought this an exaggeration, but if so,
I wish to give him the support of my own observation and that of a preacher. As a Chinaman
came in the street-car in Shanghai Friday my missionary host remarked: "That fellow has on
four or five suits already, and he'll put on more as the weather gets colder."

Mr. Currie, the English superintendent of the International Cotton Mills at Shanghai, told
me as I went through his factory that the Chinese men and women he employs average about 12
cents a day (American money), but that from his experience in England he would say that English
labor at 80 cents or a dollar a day is cheaper. "You'd have more for your money at the week's
end. One white girl will look after four sides of a ring spinning frame; it takes six Chinese,
as you see. Then, again, the one white girl would oil her own machine; the Chinese will not.
In the third place, in England two overseers would be enough for this room, while here we must
have seven."

Hong Kong.

{142}

XV

FAREWELL TO CHINA

With this letter we bid farewell to China. When I see it again it will doubtless be greatly
changed. Already I have come too late to see poppy fields or opium dens; too late to see the
old-time cells in which candidates for office were kept during their examination periods; too
late, I am told, to find the flesh of cats or dogs for sale in the markets. If I had waited
five years longer, it is likely that I should not have found the men wearing their picturesque
queues and half-shaven heads; before five years, too, a parliament and a cabinet will have
a voice in the government in which until now the one potent voice has been that of the Emperor,
the "Son of Heaven" divinely appointed to rule over the Middle Kingdom. All over the country
the people are athrill with a new life. Unless present signs fail, the century will not be
old before the Dragon Empire, instead of being a country hardly consulted by the Powers about
matters affecting its own interests, will itself become one of the Powers and will have to
be consulted about affairs in other nations.

Be it said, to begin with, that I am just back from Canton, the most populous city in China
and supposedly one of the half dozen most populous in the whole world. As no census has ever
been taken, it is impossible to say how many people it really does contain. The estimates vary
all the way from a million and a half to three millions. Half a million people, it is said,
live on boats in the river. Some of them are born, marry, grow old, and die without ever having
known a home {143} on land. And these boats, it should be remembered, are no larger than a
small bedroom at home. I saw many of them yesterday afternoon, and I also saw many of the women
managing them. The women boatmen--or boat-women--of Canton are famous.

Think of a city of two or three million people without a vehicle of any kind--wagon, buggy,
carriage, street-car, automobile, or even a rickshaw! And yet this is what Canton appears to
be. I didn't see even a wheelbarrow. The streets are too narrow for any travel except that
of pedestrians, and the only men not walking are those borne on the shoulders of men who are
walking. My guide (who rejoices in the name of Ah Cum John) and I went through in sedan chairs--a
sort of chair with light, narrow shafts before and behind. These shafts fit over the heads
and bare shoulders of three coolies, or Chinese laborers, and it is these human burden-bearers
who showed us the sights of Canton.

To get an idea of what the city is like, fancy an area of about thirty square miles crowded
with houses as thick as they can stand, every house jam up against its neighbors, with only
walls between--no room for yards or parks or driveways--and these houses dense with people!
Then punch into these square miles of houses a thousand winding alleys, no one wide enough
to be called a street, and fill up these alleys also with hurrying, perspiring, pig-tailed
Chinamen. There are no stores, shops or offices such as would look familiar to an American,
but countless thousands of Chinese shops wide open to the streets, with practically no doors
in evidence.

Such is Canton: a human hive of industry: a maze of labyrinthine alleys crowded with people,
the alleys or streets too narrow to get the full light of day!

Outside this crowded city of Canton's living masses is the even larger and more crowded city
of Canton's dead. From the highest point on the city wall my guide pointed out an unbroken
cemetery extending for ten miles: the hills dotted {144} with mounds until they have the appearance
of faces pitted by smallpox.

For the Chinaman, however unimportant in actual life, becomes a man of importance as soon as
he dies, and his grave must be carefully looked after. The finest place I saw in Canton was
the mortuary where the dead bodies of wealthy Chinamen are kept until burial. The handsome
coffins I saw ranged in value from $1400 to $2700 Mexican, or half these amounts American money.
The lacquered surfacing accounts for the high cost.

Nor are these departed Celestials kept here for a few days only. Sometimes it is a matter of
several years, my guide told me, the geomancers or fortune-tellers being employed all this
time in finding a suitable site for a grave. These miserable scoundrels pretend that the soul
of the dead man will not rest unless he is buried in just the right spot and in just the right
kind of soil. Perhaps no professional man in China earns as much as these fakirs. Sometimes
it happens that after a man has been dead two or three years his family suffers a series of
misfortunes. A frequent explanation in such cases is that the wrong site has been chosen for
the dead man's burial place. Another geomancer is then hired and told to find a new grave where
the soul will rest in peace. Of course, he charges a heavy fee.

In one $1400 coffin I saw was the body of a wealthy young Chinaman who died last spring. Three
times a day a new cup of tea is placed on the table for his spirit, and on the walls of the
room were scores of silk scrolls, fifteen feet long, expressing the sympathy of friends and
relatives. Around the coffin, too, were almost life-size images of servants, and above it a
heap of gilded paper to represent gold. When the geomancers finally find a suitable grave for
the poor fellow he will be buried, and these paper servants and this paper gold will be burned,
in the belief that they will be converted into real servants and real gold for his use in the
spirit world.

{145}

A friend of mine in Peking who saw the funeral of the late Emperor and Empress Dowager told
me some interesting stories of the truly Oriental ceremonies then celebrated. Tons of clothes
and furs were burned, and vast quantities of imitation money. A gorgeous imitation boat, natural
size and complete in every detail from cabins to anchors, steamer chairs, and ample decks,
was fitted up at a cost of $36,000 American money, and burned. Furthermore, as my friend was
coming home one evening, he was surprised to see in an unexpected place, some distance ahead,
a full regiment of soldiers, gorgeous in new uniforms, and hundreds of handsome cavalry horses.
Getting closer, what was his amazement to find that these natural-size soldiers and steeds
were only make-believe affairs to be burned for the dead monarchs! To maintain their rank in
the Beyond they must have at least one full regiment at their command!

Since we are on such gruesome subjects we might as well finish with them now by considering
the punishments in China. I went out to the execution grounds in Canton, but it happened to
be an off-day when nobody was due to suffer the death sentence. I did see the cross, though,
on which the worst criminals are stretched and strangled before they are beheaded. The bodies
of these malefactors are not allowed ordinary burial, but quick-limed, I believe. There were
human bones beside the old stone wall where I walked, and when a Chinese brat lifted for a
moment a sort of jute-bagging cover from a barrel the topmost skull of the heap grinned ghastly
in the sunlight.

The cruelty of Chinese punishments is a blot upon her civilization. When I was in Shanghai
a friend of mine told me of having been to a little town where two men had just been executed
for salt-smuggling. Salt is a government monopoly in China, or at least is subject to a special
revenue duty, so that salt smuggling is about equivalent to blockading whiskey in America.

{146}

Recognized forms of punishment are death by starvation and "death by the seventy-two cuts"--gradually
chopping a man to pieces as if he were a piece of wood. This latter punishment is for treason.
To let a bad criminal be hanged instead of beheaded is regarded as a favor, the explanation
being that the man who has his head cut off is supposed to be without a head in the hereafter.

The worst feature of the whole system is the treatment of prisoners to make them confess. The
Chinese theory is that no one should be punished unless he confesses with his own mouth. Consequently
the most brutal, sickening tortures are practised to extort confession, and, in the end, thousands
and thousands of innocent men, no doubt, rather than live longer in miseries far worse than
death, have professed crimes of which they were innocent.

But let us turn now to happier topics--say to an illustration of Chinese humor. Very well;
here is the sort of story that tickles a Chinaman: it is one they tell themselves:

A Chinaman had a magic jar. And when you think of a jar here don't think of one of the tiny
affairs such as Americans use for preserves and jams. The jar here means a big affair about
half the size of a hogshead: I bathed in one this morning. It was in such jars that Ali Baba's
Forty Thieves concealed themselves. Well, this magic jar had the power of multiplying whatever
was put into it. If you put in a suit of clothes, behold, you could pull out perhaps two or
three dozen suits! If you put in a silver dollar, you might get out a hundred silver dollars.
There doesn't seem to have been any regularity about the jar's multiplying properties. Sometimes
it might multiply by two, while again it might multiply by a hundred.

At any rate, the owner of the magic receptacle was getting rich fairly fast, when a greedy
judge got word of the strange affair somehow. Accordingly he made some kind of false charge
against the man and made him bring the jar into court. {149} Then the judge pretended that
he couldn't decide about the case, or else pretended that the man needed punishment for something,
and so wrongly refused to give the citizen's property back. Instead the magistrate took the
jar into his own home and himself began to get rich on its labors.

{147}

  The building of the Great Wail, considered simply as a feat of
  Herculean labor, leaves us no room to boast over the Panama Canal.

  The lower picture shows the terrible deformity produced by
  foot-binding.

{148}

  The upper picture suggests a word about the amazing fertility of the
  Oriental races--the Japanese, for example, increasing from their
  birth-rate alone as fast as the United States from its birth-rate
  plus its enormous immigration.

  A great need of America in the East is better consular buildings.
  Witness this one at Antung.

{149 continued}

Now, when this happened, the friends of the mistreated man began to murmur. Failing to do anything
with the magistrate, they appealed to the magistrate's father--for though you may be fifty
or seventy years old in China, if your father is living you are as much subject to his orders
as if you were only ten; this is the case just as long as you both live. But when the father
spoke about the complaints of the people the magistrate lied about the jar somehow, but not
in a way entirely to deceive the old fellow. He decided to do some investigating, and went
blundering around into a dark room in search of the jar, and before he saw what he was doing
came upon it and fell into it. Whereupon he cried to his son to pull him out.

The son did come, but when he pulled out one father, behold there was another still in the
jar--and then another and another and another. He pulled out one father after another till
the whole room was full of fathers, and then he filled up the yard with fathers, and had six
or eight standing like chickens on the stone wall before the accursed old jar would quit! And
to have left one father in there would naturally have been equivalent to murder.

So this was the punishment of the unjust magistrate. He had, of course, to support all the
dozens of aged fathers he pulled out of the jar (a Chinaman must support his father though
he starve himself), and it is to be supposed that he used up all the wealth he had unjustly
piled up, and had to work night and day as well all the rest of his life. Of course the jar,
too, had to be returned to its owner, and in this way the whole community learned of the magistrate's
unfairly withholding it.

This story is interesting not only for its own sake, but for {150} the light it sheds on Chinese
life--the relations of father and son; the unjust oppression of the people by the officials
in a land where the citizen is without the legal rights fundamental in American government;
and, lastly, the "Arabian Nights" like flavor of this typically Chinese piece of fiction.

One of the funny things among the many funny things I have encountered in China is the peculiar
way of buying or selling land, as reported to me by Rev. Dr. R. T. Bryan. If you buy land from
a Chinaman, about Shanghai at least, without knowing the custom of the country, you may have
to make him three additional payments before you get through with him. For, according to the
custom, after the first payment he will give you a deed, but after a little while will come
around sighing, regretting that he sold the land and complaining that you didn't pay enough.
Accordingly, you will pay him a little more, and he will give you what is called a "sighing
paper," certifying that the "sighing money" has been paid. A few days or weeks pass and he
turns up again. You didn't pay him quite enough before. Therefore, you make another small payment
and he gives you the "add-a-little-more" paper showing that the "add-a-little-more" money has
been paid. Last of all, you make what is called the "pull-up-root" payment, and the land is
safely yours.

Of course, the impatient foreigner hasn't time for this sort of thing, consequently he pays
enough more in the beginning to cancel these various dramatic performances. Doctor Bryan's
deed certifies that the "sighing money," "add-a-little-more money," and "pull-up-root money"
have all been settled to start with.

"Pidgin English," or the corruptions of English words and phrases by means of which foreigners
and Chinese exchange ideas, is also very amusing. "Pidgin English" means "business English,"
"pidgin" representing the Chinaman's attempt to say "business." Some of the Chinese phrases
are very useful, such as "maskee" for our "never mind." Other good phrases {151} are "chop-chop"
for "hurry up," "chin-chin" for "greeting," and "chow-chow" for "food."

"Have you had plenty chow-chow?" my good-natured Chinese elevator-boy in Shanghai used to say
to me after dinner; and the bright-eyed little brats at the temples in Peking used to explain
their failure to do anything forbidden by saying they should get "plenty bamboo chow-chow"!
Bamboos are used for switches (as well as for ten thousand other things), and "bamboo chow-chow"
means the same thing to the Chinese boy as "hickory tea" to an American boy!

A Scotch fellow-passenger was telling me the other day of the saying that "The Scotchman keeps
the Sabbath day, and every other good thing he can lay his hands on." Now, the Chinaman, unlike
the Scotchman, doesn't keep the Sabbath, but he does live up to all the requirements of the
second clause of the proverb. Nothing goes to waste in China except human labor, of which enough
is wasted every year to make a whole nation rich, simply because it is not aided by effective
implements and machinery. The bottles, the tin cans, the wooden boxes, the rags, the orange
peels--everything we throw away--is saved. And the coolies work from early morn till late at
night and every day in the week. Their own religion does not teach them to observe the seventh
day, and this requirement of Christianity, in China as well as in Japan, is regarded as a great
hardship upon its converts.

Buddhism in China, as in Japan, it may also be observed just here, is now only a hideous mixture
of superstition and fraud. As I found believers in the Japanese temples rubbing images of men
and bulls to cure their own pains, so in the great Buddhist temple at Canton I found the fat
Buddha's body rubbed slick in order to bring flesh to thin supplicants, while one of the chief
treasures of the temple is a pair of "fortune sticks." If the Chinese Buddhist wishes to undertake
any new task or project, he first comes to the priest and tries out its advisability with these
"fortune sticks." If, when dropped to the {152} floor, they lie in such a position as to indicate
good luck, he goes ahead; otherwise he is likely to abandon the project.

Let me close this chapter by noting a remark made to me by Dr. Timothy Richard, one of the
most eminent religious and educational workers in the empire.

"Do you know what has brought about the change in China?" he asked me one day in Peking. "Well,
I'll tell you: it is a comparative view of the world. Twenty years ago the Chinese did not
know how their country ranked with other countries in the elements of national greatness. They
had been told that they were the greatest, wisest, and most powerful people on earth, and they
didn't care to know what other countries were doing. Since then, however, they have studied
books, have sent their sons to foreign colleges and universities, and they have found out in
what particulars China has fallen behind other nations. Now they have set out to remedy these
defects. The comparative view of the world is what is bringing about the remaking of China."

In China, no doubt, the men who have brought the people this "comparative view of the word"
were criticised sometimes for presuming to suggest that any other way might be better than
China's way; but they kept to their work--and have won. Doctor Richard himself did much effective
service by publishing a series of articles and diagrams showing how China compared with other
countries in area, population, education, wealth, revenue, military strength, etc. Such comparisons
are useful for America as a country, and for individual states and sections as well.

Hong Kong, China.

{153}

XVI

WHAT I SAW IN THE PHILIPPINES

Of the cruelty of Chinese punishments I have already had something to say, but there is at
least one thing that should be said for the Chinese officials in this connection: No matter
how heinous his crime, they have never sent a criminal from Hong Kong to Manila in an Indo-China
boat in the monsoon and typhoon season.

Dante could have found new horrors for the "Inferno" in the voyage as I made it. From Saturday
morning till Sunday night, while the storm was at its height, the waves beat clean over the
top of our vessel. A thousand times it rolled almost completely to one side, shivered, trembled,
and recovered itself, only to yield again to the wrath and fury of mountain-like waves hurled
thundering against it and over it. The crack where the door fitted over the sill furnished
opening enough to flood my cabin. In spite of the heat not even a crack could be opened at
the top of the window until Monday morning. A bigger ship a few hours ahead of us found the
sea in an even more furious mood. The captain stayed on the bridge practically without sleep
three days and nights, going to bed, spent with fatigue and watching, as soon as he came at
last into sight of Manila. Two weeks ago the captain of another ship came into port so much
used up that he resigned and gave his first mate command of the vessel, while still another
vessel has just limped into Manila disabled after buffeting the storm for a brief period.

{154}

At any rate, the trip is over now, and I write this in Manila, with its tropical heat and vegetation,
its historic associations, its strange mixture of savage, Spanish, and American influences.
The Pasig River, made famous in the war days of '98, flows past my hotel, and beautiful Manila
Bay, glittering in the fierce December sunlight, recalls memories of Dewey and our navy. But
the moss-green walls about the old Spanish city remind us of days of romance and tragedy more
fascinating than any of the events of our own generation. In the days when Spain made conquest
of the world these streets were laid out, and the statues of her sovereigns, imperious and
imperial, still stand here to remind us that nations, like men, are mortal, and that for follies
or mistakes a people no less surely than an individual must pay the price.

Nor let our own proud America, boasting of her greater area and richer
resources, think she may ignore the lessons the history of her
predecessors here may teach.
       Judge of the nations, spare us yet,
       Lest we forget, lest we forget!"

In order to see what the Philippine country looks like, I left Manila Thursday and made the
long, hot trip to Daguban, travelling through the provinces of Rizal, Bulacan, Pampanga, Tarlac,
and Pangasinan. The first four of these are known as Tagalog provinces; the fifth is inhabited
by Ilocanos and Pampangans. Three dialects or languages are spoken by the {155} tribes in the
territory covered. Not far beyond Daguban are savage dog-eating, head-hunting tribes; taos,
or peasants, buy dogs around Daguban and sell to these savages at good profits.

The provinces I travelled through are typical of Filipinoland generally. Rather sparsely settled,
only the smaller part of the land is under cultivation, the rest grown up in horse-high tigbao
or Tampa grass, or covered with small forest trees. Among trees the feathery, fern-like foliage
of the bamboo is most in evidence; but the broad-leaved banana ranks easily next. The high
topknot growth of the cocoanut palm and the similar foliage of the tall-shanked papaya afford
a spectacle unlike anything we see at home. About Daguban especially many cocoanuts are grown,
and the clumps of trees by the Agno River reminded me of the old Bible pictures of the River
Nile in the time of Pharaoh--especially when I looked at the plowing going on around them.
For the Filipino's plow is modelled closely on the old Egyptian implement, and hasn't been
much changed. A properly crooked small tree or limb serves for a handle, another crooked bough
makes the beam, and while there is in most cases a steel-tipped point, some of the poorer farmers
have plows made entirely of wood. A piece of wood bent like the letter U forms the hames; another
piece like U with the prongs pulled wide apart serves as a singletree. Then, with two pieces
of rope connecting primitive hame and single-tree, the Filipino's harness is complete.

Before going into any further description of the plows, however, let us get our picture of
the typical country on the Island of Luzon as I saw it on this hot December day. Great fields
of rice here and there, ripe for the harvest, and busy, perspiring little brown men and women
cutting the crop with old-fashioned knives and sickles; the general appearance not unlike an
American wheat or oat harvest in early summer. Bigger fields of head-high sugarcane at intervals,
the upper two feet green, the blades below yellow and dry. Some young corn, some of it tasselling,
some that will not be in tassel before the last of {156} January. Some fields of peanuts. Here
and there a damp low-ground and a sluggish river. Boats on the rivers: small freight boats
of a primitive type and long canoes hewed out of single logs.

Most striking of all are the houses in which the people live, clustered in villages, as are
farmhouses in almost every part of the world except in America. Surrounded in most cases by
the massive luxuriance of a banana grove, the Filipino's hut stands on stilts as high as his
head, and often higher. One always enters by a ladder. In most instances there are two rooms,
the larger one perhaps 10 x 12 feet, and a sort of lean-to adjoining, through which the ladder
comes. A one-horse farmer's corn crib is about the size of the larger Filipino home. And it
is made, of course, not of ordinary lumber, but of bamboo--the ever-serviceable bamboo--which,
as my readers probably know, strongly resembles the fishing-pole reeds that grow on our river
banks. The sills, sleepers, and scaffolding of the house are made of larger bamboo trunks,
six inches or less in diameter; the split trunks form the floor; the sides are of split bamboo
material somewhat like that of which we make our hamper baskets and split-bottom chairs; the
roofing is of nipal, which looks much like very long corn shucks.

In short, imagine an enormous hamper basket, big enough to hold six or eight hogsheads, put
on stilts, and covered with shucks: such in appearance is the Filipino's house. Around it are
banana trees bent well toward the ground by the weight of the one great bunch at the top, and
possibly a few bamboo and cocoanut trees. For human ornaments there are rather small and spare
black-haired, black-eyed, brown-skinned men, women, and children in clothing rather gayly colored--as
far as it goes: in some cases it doesn't go very far. The favorite color with the women-folk
is a sort of peach-blossom mixture of pink and white or a bandanna-handkerchief combination
of red and white. Bare feet are most common, {159} but many wear slippers, and not a few are
now slaves enough to fashion to wear American shoes. The men, except the very poorest, wear
white, nor is it a white worn dark by dirt such as Koreans wear, but a spotless, newly washed
white. Nearly every Filipino seems to have on clothes that were laundered the day before. A
sort of colored gauze is frequently the only outer garment worn by either men or women on the
upper part of the body.

{157}

  Nearly all the native houses I saw in the rural Philippines were of
  this type--about this size, set on stilts, and constructed of
  similar material. The scene is not quite natural-looking, however,
  without a banana grove and a fighting cock or two.

{158}

  Of all the native Oriental peoples, the Filipinos alone have become
  thoroughly Christianized. The great majority are Catholics.

{159 continued}

The beast of burden in the Philippines, the ungainly, slow-moving animal that pulls the one-handled
plows and the two-wheeled carts, is the carabao. The carabao, or water buffalo, is about the
size of an ordinary American ox, and much like the ox, but his hide is black, thick, and looks
almost as tough as an alligator's; his horns are enormous, and he has very little hair. Perhaps
his having lived in the water so much accounts for the absence of the hair. Even now he must
every day submerge himself contentedly in deep water, must cover his body like a pig in a wallow:
this is what makes life worth living for him. Furthermore, when he gives word that he is thirsty
Mr. Tao (the peasant) must not delay watering him; in this hot climate thirst may drive him
furiously, savagely mad, and the plowman may not be able to climb a cocoanut tree quick enough
to escape hurt.

I saw quite a few goats, some cattle, a few hogs, and, of course, some dogs. Much as the Filipino
may care for his dog, however, he always reserves the warmest place in his heart for nothing
else but his gamecock, his fighting rooster. Cock-fighting, and the gambling inseparably connected
with it, are his delight, and no Southern planter ever regarded a favorite fox-hound with more
pride and affection than the Filipino bestows on his favorite chicken. In grassy yards you
will see the rooster tied by one leg and turned out to exercise, as we would stake a cow to
graze, while his owner watches and fondles him. I shall never forget a gray-headed, bright-eyed,
barefooted old codger I saw near Tarlac stroking the feathers of his bird, while in his eyes
was the pride as of a woman over {160} her first-born. A man often carries his gamecock with
him as a negro would carry a dog, and he is as ready to back his judgment with his last centavo
as was the owner of Mark Twain's "Jumping Frog" before that ill-fated creature dined too heartily
on buckshot. Sundays and saints' days are the days for cock-fighting--and both come pretty often.

I wish I could give my readers a glimpse of the passengers who got on and off my train between
Manila and Daguban: Filipino women carrying baskets on their heads, smoking cigarettes, and
looking after babies--in some cases doing all three at once; Filipino men, likewise smoking,
and with various kinds of luggage, including occasional gamecocks; Filipino children in most
cases "undressed exceedingly," as Mr. Kipling would say; and American soldiers in khaki uniforms
and helmets. At one place a pretty little twelve-year-old girl gets aboard, delighted that
she is soon to see America for the first time in six years. For a while I travel with an American
surveyor whose work is away out where he must swim unbridged streams, guard against poisonous
snakes, and sleep where he can. An army surgeon tells me as we pass the site of a battle between
the Americans and the Filipino insurgents eleven years ago: the Filipinos would not respect
the Red Cross, and the doctors and hospital corps had to work all night with their guns beside
them, alternately bandaging wounds and firing on savages. In telling me good-bye a young Westerner
sends regards to all America. "Even a piece of Arizona desert would look good to me," he declares;
"anything that's U.S.A." A young veterinarian describes the government's efforts to exterminate
rinderpest, a disease which in some sections has killed nine tenths of the carabao. A campaign
as thorough and far-reaching as that which the Agricultural Department at home is waging against
cattle ticks is in progress, but the ignorant farmers cannot understand the regulations, and
are greatly hindering a work which means so much of good to them.

Such are a few snapshots of Philippine life.

{161}

Of the vast natural resources of the Philippines there can be no question. With a fertile soil,
varied products, immense forest wealth, and possibly extensive mineral wealth; with developing
railway and steamship lines; with the markets of the Orient right at her doors and special
trade advantages with the United States--with all these advantages, the islands might soon
become rich, if there were only an industrious population.

Unfortunately, the Filipino, however, doesn't like work. Whether or not this dislike is incurable
remains to be seen. Perhaps as he comes into contact with civilization he may conceive a liking
for other things than rice, fish, a loin-cloth, and shade--plenty of shade--and proceed to
put forth the effort necessary to get these other things. Already there seems to have been
a definite rise in the standards of living since the American occupation. "When I came here
in '98," Mr. William Crozier said to me, "not one native in a hundred wore shoes, and hats
were also the exception; you can see for yourself how great is the change since then."

Moreover, in not a few cases Americans who have complained of difficulty in getting labor have
been themselves to blame: they tried to hire and manage labor the American way instead of in
the Filipino way. The custombre, as the Spanish call it--that is to say, the custom of the
country--is a factor which no man can ignore without paying the penalty.

I am having to prepare this article very hurriedly, and I must postpone my comment on the work
of the American Government until later. In closing, however, I am reminded that just as the
old proverb says, "It takes all sorts of people to make a world," so I am seeing all sorts.
A week ago yesterday the Hong Kong papers announced that Mr. Clarence Poe would be the guest
at luncheon of his Excellency the Governor-General, Sir Frederick Lugard, K. C. M. G., C. B.,
D. S. O., etc., and Lady Lugard, in the executive mansion; yesterday {162} I had "chow" (food)
in a Filipino's place, "The Oriental Hotel, Bar, and Grocery," away up in the Province of Pangasinan,
and climbed to my room and cot on a sort of ladder or open work stairs such as one might expect
to find in an ordinary barn! It was the best place I could find in town.

Nor do the incongruities end here. After getting my evening meal I walked out in the warm December
moonlight, past the shadows of the strange buildings and tropical trees--and all at once there
burst out the full chorus of one of the world's great operas, the magnificent voice of a Campanini
or Caruso dominating all!

Great is the graphophone, advance agent of civilization!

Manila, P. I.

{163}

XVII

WHAT THE UNITED STATES IS DOING IN THE PHILIPPINES

There are so many islands in the Philippine group, which I have just left behind me (I write
in a steamer off Manila), that if a man were to visit one a day, without stopping for Sundays,
it would take him eight years to get around. Most of these islands though, of course, are little
more than splotches on the water's surface and do not appear on the map. The two big ones,
Mindanao and Luzon, contain three fourths of the total land surface of 127,000 square miles,
leaving the other one fourth to be divided among the other 3138 islets.

The land area statistics just given indicate that the Philippines are about the size of three
average American states and the population (7,000,000) is about three times that of an average
American commonwealth. There are only about 30,000 white people in the islands, and 50,000
Chinese. Chinese immigration is now prohibited.

The 7,000,000 native Filipinos who make up practically the entire population represent all
stages of human progress. The lowest of them are head-hunters and hang the skulls of their
human enemies outside their huts, as an American hunter would mount the head of an elk or bear.
The great majority, however, have long been Christians and have attained a fair degree of civilization.
Even among the savage tribes a high moral code is often enforced. The Igorrotes, for example,
though some of their number make it a condition of marriage {164} that the young brave shall
have taken a head, shall have killed his man, have remarkable standards of honor and virtue
in some respects, and formally visit the death penalty as the punishment for adultery. Because
roads or means of communication have been poor the people have mingled but little, and there
are three dozen different dialects. In the course of a half day's journey by rail I found three
different languages spoken by the people along the route. The original inhabitants were Negritos,
a race of pigmy blacks, of whom only a remnant remains, but the Filipino proper is a Malayan.

Filipinos are unique in that they alone among all the native peoples of Asia have accepted
Christianity. Fortunate in being without the gold of Mexico or Peru, the Philippines did not
attract the more brutal Spanish adventurers who, about the time of Magellan's discovery, were
harrying wealthier peoples with fire and sword. Instead of the soldier or the adventurer, it
was the priest, his soul aflame with love for his church, who came to the Philippines, and
the impression made by his virtues was not negatived by the bloody crimes of fellow Spaniards
mad with lust of treasure. The result is that to this day probably 90 per cent, of the Filipinos
are Catholics. Before the priests came, the people worshipped their ancestors, as do other
peoples in the Far East.

The only Asiatics who have accepted Christianity, the Filipinos are also the only Asiatics
among whom women are not regarded as degraded and inferior beings. "If the Spaniards had done
nothing else here," as a high American official in Manila said to me, "though, as a matter
of fact, we are beginning to recognize that they did a great deal, they would deserve well
of history for what they have accomplished for the elevation of woman through the introduction
of Christianity. No other religion regards woman as man's equal."

The testimony I heard in the Philippines indicated that the female partner in the household
is, if anything, superior in authority to the man. She is active in all the little business
{165} affairs of the family, and white people sometimes arrange with Filipino wives for the
employment of husbands!

The resources of the islands, as I have already said, are magnificent and alluring. In the
provinces through which I travelled, less than 10 per cent. of the land seemed to be under
cultivation, and statistics show that this is the general condition. A small area has sufficed
to produce a living for the tao, or peasant, and he has not cultivated more--a fact due in
part to laziness and in part to poor means of transportation. What need to produce what cannot
be taken to market? This fact, in my opinion, goes far to account for Filipino unaggressiveness.

According to the latest figures, the average size of the farms in the Philippines, including
the large plantations, is less than eight acres, and the principal products are hemp, sugarcane,
tobacco, cocoanuts, and rice. The Manila hemp plant looks for all the world like the banana
plant (both belong to the same family), and the newcomer cannot tell them apart. The fibre
is in the trunk or bark. Sisal hemp, which I found much like our yucca or "bear grass," is
but little grown. Sugarcane is usually cultivated in large plantations, as in Louisiana, these
plantations themselves called haciendas, and their owners hacienderos. The tobacco industry
is an important one, and would be even if the export averaging half a million cigars for every
day in the year were stopped, for the Filipinos themselves are inveterate smokers. The men
smoke, the women smoke, the children smoke--usually cigarettes, but sometimes cigars of enormous
proportions. "When I first came here," Prof. C. M. Conner said to me, "it amused me to ask
a Filipino how far it was to a certain place, and have him answer, 'Oh, two or three cigarettes,'
meaning the distance a man should walk in smoking two or three cigarettes!" Cocoanut-raising
is a very profitable industry--all along the Pasig River in Manila you can see the native boats
high-packed with the green, unhusked product, and two towns in Batanzas shipped 1500 carloads
last year. It is also believed that {166} the rubber industry would pay handsomely. The rubber-producing
trees I saw about Manila were very promising.

Coffee plantations brought their owners handsome incomes until about twenty years ago, when
the blight, more devastating than the cotton boll weevil, came with destruction as swift as
that which befell Sennacherib. I heard the story of an old plantation near Lipa, whose high-bred
Castilian owner once lived in splendor, his imported horses gay in harness made of the finest
silver, but the blight which ruined his coffee plants was equally a blight to his fortunes
and his home and it is now given over to weeds and melancholy ruins. In some sections, however,
coffee is still grown successfully, and I was much interested in seeing the shrubs in bearing.

The Philippines are about the only place I have found since leaving home where the people are
not trying to grow cotton. In California, in the Hawaiian Islands, in Japan, in Korea, and
even in Manchuria as far north as Philadelphia, I have found the plants, and of course in China
proper. But I should add just here, that in Southern China, about Canton, I did not find cotton.
As for the industry in the Philippines, a Southern man, now connected with the Agricultural
Department in Manila, said to me: "Cotton acts funny here. It runs to weed. I planted some
and it opened five or six bolls a stalk and then quit: died down." He showed me some "tree
cotton," about twenty feet high, and also some of the Caravonica cotton from Australia, which
is itself much like a small tree.

When it comes to the lumber industry, not even Col. Mulberry Sellers would be likely to overestimate
the possibilities the Philippines offer. There are literally millions in it. The government
is leasing immense areas on a stumpage royalty of about 1 per cent., and as railways are built
the industry will expand. Fortunately, there are strict regulations to prevent the destruction
of the forests. They must be used, not wasted. The authorities realize that while timber is
a crop like other crops, it differs from the other crops in that the harvesting must {167}
never be complete. The cutting of trees below a certain minimum size is forbidden.

And now a word as to the activities of the American Government in the islands and the agencies
through which these activities are conducted. The supreme governing body is known as the Philippine
Commission, consisting of the Governor-General, who is ex-officio president, and seven other
members (four Americans, three Filipinos) appointed by the President of the United States.
Four of these commissioners (three of these are Americans) are heads of departments, having
duties somewhat like those of Cabinet officers in America. This commission is not only charged
with the executive duties, but it acts as the Upper House or Senate of the Philippine Congress.
That is to say, the voters elect an Assembly corresponding to our House of Representatives,
but no legislation can become effective unless approved by the Philippine Commission acting
as the Upper House. In the first two elections, those of 1907 and 1909, the advocates of early
independence, opponents of continued American supremacy, have predominated. The result has
been that the American members of the commission have had to kill numberless bills passed by
the Assembly. On the other hand, some very necessary and important measures advocated by the
commission, measures which would be very helpful to the Filipinos, are opposed by the Assembly
either through ignorance or stubbornness. Most of the Assembly members are of the politician
type, mestizos or half-breeds (partly Spanish or Chinese), and very young. "In fact," a Manila
man said to me, "when adjournment is taken, it is hard for a passerby to tell whether it is
the Assembly that has let out or the High School!" The people in the provinces elect their
own governors and city officials.

In some respects the legislation for the Philippines adopted by the American officials at Washington
and Manila has been quite progressive. To begin with, our Republican National {168} Administration
frankly recognized the blunders made in the South during Reconstruction days, and has practically
endorsed the general policy of suffrage restriction which the South has since adopted. When
the question came up as to who should be allowed to vote, even for the limited number of elective
offices, no American Congressman was heard to propose that there should be unrestricted manhood
suffrage. Instead, the law as passed provides that in order to vote in the Philippines one
must be 23 years of age, a subject of no foreign power, and must either (1) have held some
responsible office before August 13, 1898, or (2) own $250 worth of property or pay $15 annually
in established taxes, or (3) be able to speak, read, and write English or Spanish. Of course,
the Filipinos, with a few exceptions, do not "speak, read, or write" English or Spanish; they
have been taught only their own dialect. I understand that only 2 per cent, of the people can
vote under these provisions.

It should be said just here, however, that the government is now making a magnificent effort
to educate all the Filipinos, and the schools are taught in English. The fact that half a million
boys and girls had been put into public schools was the first boasted achievement of the American
administration of the islands. It was, indeed, a great change from Spanish methods, but in
the last three or four years the officials have been rapidly waking up to the fact that while
they have been getting the Filipinos into the schools, they have not been getting them into
the right sort of schools.

With the realization of this fact, a change has been made in the kind of instruction given.
More and more the schools have been given an industrial turn. When I visited the Department
of Education in Manila I found that old textbooks had been discarded and new text-books prepared--books
especially suited to Philippine conditions and directed to practical ends. Instead of a general
physiology describing bones, arteries, and nerve centres, I found a little book on {169} "Sanitation
and Hygiene in the Tropics," written in simple language, profusely illustrated, and with information
which the pupil can use in bettering the health of himself, his family, and his neighborhood.
Instead of a general book on agriculture, I found a book written so as to fit the special needs,
crops, and conditions in the Philippines. Moreover, I found the officials exhibiting as their
chief treasures the specimens of work turned out by the pupils as a result of the practical
instruction given them.

"I really think," said one of the officers, "that we have carried the idea of industrial education,
of making the schools train for practical life, much farther in the Philippines than it has
been carried in the United States. The trouble at home is that our teachers don't introduce
industrial education early enough. They wait until the boy enters the upper grades--if he doesn't
leave school before entering them at all, as he probably does. In any case, they reach only
a few pupils. Our success, on the other hand, is due to the fact that we begin with industrial
education in the earlier grades and get everybody."

And right here is a valuable lesson for those of us who are interested in getting practical
training for white boys and girls in America as well as for brown boys and girls in the Philippines.

Another progressive step was the introduction of postal savings banks for the Filipinos before
any law was passed giving similar advantage to the white people of the United States. The law
has worked well. In fact, the increase in number of depositors last year, from 8782 to 13,102--nearly
50 per cent, in a single twelve-month--would indicate that the people are getting enthusiastic
about it and that it is achieving magnificent results in stimulating thrift and the saving habit.

The government has also introduced the Torrens System of Registering Land Titles, as it has
done in Hawaii. Formerly {170} the farmer or the peasant paid 20 per cent, or more for advances
or loans. With his land registered under the Torrens system the bank will lend him money at
a normal rate of interest, with nothing wasted in lawyers' fees for expensive investigations
of all previous changes in title since the beginning of time. Judge Charles B. Elliott, now
Secretary of Commerce and Police for the islands, was on the Minnesota Supreme Bench when the
Torrens plan was put into force there, and he is enthusiastic about its workings both in his
home state in America and in the Philippines.

For the public health an especially fruitful work has been done by the Americans, albeit the
Filipino has often had much to say in criticism of the methods of saving life, and but little
in praise of the work itself. "The hate of those ye better, the curse of those ye bless" may
usually be confidently counted on by those who bear the White Man's Burden, and this seems
to have been especially true with regard to health work in the East. In the Philippines the
farmers object to the quarantine restrictions that would save their carabao from rinderpest;
they object to the regulations that look to stamping out cholera, and I suppose the isolation
and colonization of lepers, who formerly ran at large, has also been unpopular. In spite of
opposition, vaccination is now general; pock-marked Filipinos will not be so common in future.

Nor is it likely that there will be many reports of cholera outbreaks such as an ex-army nurse
described to me a few days ago: "When I was in Iloilo in 1902," she said, "it was impossible
to dig graves for the poor natives as fast as they died. The men were kept digging, at the
point of the bayonet, all night long--pits 100 feet long, 7 feet wide and 7 feet deep, in which
the bodies of the dead were thrown and quick-limed--and yet I remember that on one occasion
235 corpses lay for forty-eight hours before we could find graves for them."

In Manila statistics show that 44 per cent. of the deaths are {171} of babies under one year
old, and the ignorance of the mothers as to proper methods of feeding and nursing has resulted
in a shockingly high death rate of little ones all over the Philippines. I noticed that the
new school text-book on sanitation and hygiene gives especial attention to the care of infants,
and it is said that already the school boys and girls are often able to give their mothers
helpful counsel. In this fact we have another good suggestion for the school authorities at
home, where it is said that proper knowledge and care would save the lives of a million infants
a year.

Hardly less important than the school work has been the road-building undertaken by the American
officials. And in Philippine road work a most excellent example has been set for the states
at home, in that the authorities have given attention not only to building roads but to maintaining
them after they are built. Too many American communities vote a heavy bond issue for roads
and think that ends the matter. In the Philippines no such mistake has been made. "With the
heavy rains here," the Governor-General said to me, "our entire investment in a piece of good
road would be lost in four years' time if repair work were not carefully looked after."

The system adopted for keeping up the roads is very interesting. Everywhere along the fine
highways I travelled over there were at intervals piles or pens of crushed stone and other
material for filling up any hole or break. For each mile or so a Filipino is employed--he is
called a caminero--and his whole duty is to take a wheelbarrow and a few tools and keep that
piece of road in shape.

Prizes of $5000 each are also offered to the province that maintains the best system of first-class
roads, to the province that spends the largest proportion of its funds on roads and bridges,
and to the province that shows the best and most complete system of second-class roads.

That the Filipinos are unfit to face the world alone there can be little doubt. As to whether
it is our business in that {172} case to manage for them is another question. The Filipinos
are, like our negroes, a child-race in habits of thought, whatever they may be from the standpoint
of the evolutionist. "I never get angry with them, however much they may obstruct my plans,"
an American of rank said to me, "for I look on them as children. We are running a George Junior
Republic; that's what it amounts to." Another American, who has had some experience with the
Assembly, said to me: "When you have explained and reiterated some apparently simple proposition,
they will come to you a day or so later with some elementary question amazing for its childishness."
A large number of excellent measures for which the Assembly has received the credit were really
instigated by the commission--"personally conducted legislation," it is called.

The Filipinos come of a race which has achieved more than the negro race, but on the whole
they are probably hardly better fitted for self-government than the negroes of the South would
be to-day if all the whites should move away. As a Republican of some prominence at home said
to me in Manila: "A crowd of ten-year-old schoolboys in Chicago would know better how to run
a government."

The mere fact that the Filipinos are not capable of managing wisely for themselves, of course,
is not enough to justify a colonial or imperialistic policy on the part of the United States.
It is not our business to go up and down the earth taking charge of everybody who is not managing
his affairs as well as we think we could manage for him. But, in any case, there is no use
to delude ourselves as to what are the real qualifications of Mr. Filipino.

I believe that the United States should eventually withdraw from the islands, but when it does
so there should be an understanding with the Powers that will prevent the natives from being
exploited by some other nation.

China Sea, off Manila Harbor.

{173}

XVIII

ASIA'S GREATEST LESSON FOR AMERICA

The prosperity of every man depends upon the prosperity (and therefore upon the efficiency)
of the Average Man.

So I have argued for years, in season and out of season, in newspaper articles and in public
addresses; and the most impressive fact I have discovered in all my travel through the Orient
is the fundamental, world-wide importance of this too little accepted economic doctrine. It
is the biggest lesson the Old World has for the New--the biggest and the most important.

In America, education, democratic institutions, a proper organization of industry: these have
given the average man a high degree of efficiency and therefore a high degree of prosperity
as compared with the lot of the average man in Asia or Europe--a prosperity heightened and
enhanced, it is true, by the exploitation of a new continent's virgin resources, but, after
all, due mainly, primarily, as we have said, to the high degree of efficiency with which the
average man does his work.

And while there may be "too much Ego in our Cosmos," as Kipling's German said about the monkey,
for us to like to admit it, the plain truth is that, no matter what our business, we chiefly
owe our prosperity not to our own efforts, but to the high standards of intelligence, efficiency,
and prosperity on the part of our people as a whole. We live in better homes, eat more wholesome
food, wear better clothing, have more leisure {174} and more recreation, endure less bitter
toil; in short, we find human life fairer and sweeter than our fellow man in Asia, not because
you or I as individuals deserve so much better than he, but because of our richer racial heritage.
We have been born into a society where a higher level of prosperity obtains, where a man's
labor and effort count for more.

In China a member of the Emperor's Grand Council told me that the average rate of wages throughout
the empire for all classes of labor is probably 18 cents a day. In Japan it is probably not
more, and in India much less. The best mill workers I saw in Osaka average 22 cents a day;
the laborers at work on the new telephone line in Peking get 10 cents; wheelbarrow coolies
in Shanghai $4 a month; linotype operators in Tokyo 45 cents a day, and pressmen 50; policemen
40; the ironworkers in Hankow average about 10 cents; street-car conductors in Seoul make 35
cents; farm laborers about Nankou 10 cents; the highest wages are paid in the Philippines,
where the ordinary laborer gets from 20 to 50 cents.

  Since writing the foregoing I have looked up the latest official
  statistics for Japan in the "Financial and Economic Annual for
  1910," the latest figures compiled to date being for 1908. In 1908
  wages had increased on the whole 40 per cent, above 1900 figures,
  and I give herewith averages for certain classes of workmen for 1899
  and 1908:

                        Daily Wages in Cents
                           1899     1908
  Farm laborer, male     $0.13     $0.19
  Farm laborer, female     .08-1/2   .11-1/2
  Gardener                 .24       .34
  Weaver, male             .15       .22
  Weaver, female           .09       .12
  Shoemaker                .22-1/2   .32-1/2
  Carpenter                .25       .40
  Blacksmith               .23       .34
  Day laborer              .17       .26-1/2

  When I asked Director Matsui what he paid the hands I saw at work on
  the Agricultural College farm, he answered, "Well, being so near
  Tokyo, we have to pay 30 to 40 sen (15 to 20 cents) a day, but in
  the country, generally, I should say 20 to 35 sen" (10 to 13-1/2
  cents a day).

{175}

Moreover, there is a savage struggle for employment even at these low figures; men work longer
hours than in America, and their tasks are often heart-sickening in their heaviness: tasks
such as an American laborer would regard as inhuman.

Take, for example, the poor fellow who pulls the jinrikisha. He is doing the work that horses
and mules do at home, and for wages such as our Southern negroes would refuse for ordinary
labor. More than this, in most cases he is selling you not only his time but his life-blood.
Run he must with his human burden, and faster than Americans would care to run without a burden;
and the constant strain overtaxes his heart and shortens his days. More than this, he must
go in all kinds of weather, and having become thoroughly heated, must shiver in the winter
wind or driving rain during waits. The exposure and the overtaxing of the heart are alike ruinous.
The rickshaw man's life, I was told in Japan, is several years shorter than that of the average
man.

And yet so many men are driven by the general poverty into the rickshaw business that I have
hardly found a city in which it is not overcrowded. In Peking on one occasion I almost thought
my life endangered by the mob who jostled, tugged, and fought for the privilege of earning
the 15 or 20 cents fare my patronage involved. In Hong Kong two runners, wild-eyed with the
keenness of the savage struggle for existence, menaced the smaller, younger man I had hired
as if they would take me by force from his vehicle to their own--and this for a climb so steep
that I soon got out and walked rather than feel myself guilty of "man's inhumanity to man"
by making a fellow being pull me. Fiercer yet was the competition in Hankow, where not even
the brutal clubbing of the policeman was enough to keep the men in order. In wintry Newchwang
I think I suffered almost as much as my rickshaw man did merely to see him wading through mud
and foulness such as I should not wish my horse to go through at home--though if he had {176}
not waded I should have had to, and he was the more used to it!

I mention the hard life of the Oriental laborer who pulls the jinrikisha because it is typical.
The business would not be crowded if it were not that the men find life in other lines no better.
Consider the men who carried me in my sedan chair in Canton. As each man fitted the wooden
shafts over his shoulders I could see that they were welted with corns like a mule's shoulders
chafed by the hames through many a summer's plowing.

Consider, too, the thousands of Chinese and Japanese who do the work not of carriage horses,
but of draft horses. From the time you land in Yokahoma your heart is made sick by the sight
of half-naked human-beings harnessed like oxen to heavily laden carts and drays. Bent, tense,
and perspiring like slaves at the oar, they draw their heavy burdens through the streets. One
or two men wearily pull an immense telegraph pole balanced on a two-wheeled truck. Eight or
ten men are harnessed together dragging some merchant's heavy freight. Four to a dozen other
men carry some heavy building-stone or piece of machinery by running bamboo supports from the
shoulders of the men behind to the shoulders of the men in front: you can see the constant,
tortuous play of the muscles around each man's rigid backbone while the strained, monotonous,
half-weird chorus, "Hy-ah! Hullah! Hee-ah! Hey!" measures their tread and shifts the strain
from man to man, step by step, with the precision of clock work. On the rivers in China, too,
one sees boats run by human treadmill power: a harder task than that of Sisyphus is that of
the men who sweat all day long at the wheel, forever climbing and never advancing.

Nor do the women and children of the Orient escape burdens such as only men's strong shoulders
should bear. Children who should have the freedom that even the young colt gets--how my heart
has gone out to them cheated out of the joys {177} of childhood! And the women with children
strapped on their backs while they steer boats and handle passengers and traffic about Hong
Kong! Or leave, if you will, the water-front at Hong Kong and make the hard climb up the steep,
bluff-like, 1800-foot mountainside, dotted with the handsome residences of wealthy Englishmen:
you can hardly believe that every massive timber, every ton of brick, every great foundation-stone
was carried up, up from the town below, by the tug and strain of human muscle--and not merely
human muscle, but in most cases the muscles of women! Probably no governor in any state in
America lives in a residence so splendid as that of the governor-general of Hong Kong--certainly
no governor's residence is so beautifully situated, halfway up a sheer mountain-slope--and
yet the wife of the governor-general told me that the material used in the building was brought
up the mountainside by women!

Hardly better fare the women in the factories. I mentioned in a former letter the mills in
Shanghai where women work 13-1/4 hours for 12 cents a day; and in most cases the women in Eastern
factories are herded together in crowded compounds little better than the workhouses for American
criminals!

Or consider the rice farmers who wade through mud knee-deep to plant the rice by hand, cultivate
it with primitive tools, and harvest it with sickles. And after all this, they must often sell
the rice they grow, and themselves buy cheaper millet or poorer rice for their own food. The
situation has probably improved somewhat since Col. Charles Denby published his book five years
ago, but in its general outlines the plight of the typical Chinese farmer as described by him
then is true to-day:

  "The average wage of an able-bodied young man is $12 per annum, with
  food and lodging, straw shoes, and free shaving--an important item in
  a country where heads must be shaved three or four times a month.
  His clothing costs about $4 per annum. In ten years he may buy one
  third of an acre of land ($150 per acre) and necessary implements.
  In ten years more he may {178} double his holdings and become
  part-owner in a water buffalo. In six years more he can procure a
  wife and live comfortably on his estate. Thus in twenty-six years he
  has gained a competence."

So much by way of a faint picture of existing industrial conditions in the Orient. Let us now
see what there is for us to learn from these facts.

First of all, we may inquire why such conditions obtain. Why is it that the Oriental gets such
low wages, and has such low earning power? "An overcrowded population," somebody answers, "in
China, for example, four hundred million people--one fourth the human race--crowded within
the limits of one empire. This is the cause."

I don't believe it.

There is a limit no doubt beyond which increase of population, even with the most highly developed
system of industry, might lead to such a result, but I do not believe that this limit has been
reached even in China. The people in England live a great deal better to-day than they did
when England had only one tenth its present population. The average man in your county has
more conveniences, comforts, and a better income than he had in your grandfather's day when
the population was not nearly so dense. The United States with a population of ninety odd million
pays its laborers vastly better than it did when its population was only thirty million.

The truth is that every man should be able to earn a little more than he consumes; there should
be a margin, an excess which should constitute his contribution to the "commonwealth," to the
race. Our buildings, roads, railroads, churches, cathedrals, works of art--everything which
makes the modern world a better place to live in than the primitive world was: these represent
the combined contributions of all previous men and races. And if society is so able to handle
men that they produce any fraction more than they consume, the more men the better the world.

{179}

My conviction is that the Oriental nations are poor, not because of their dense populations,
but because of their defective industrial organizations, because they do not provide men Tools
and Knowledge to work with.

Ignorance and lack of machinery--these have kept Asia poor; knowledge and modern tools--these
have made America rich.

If Asia had a Panama Canal to dig, she would dig it with picks, hoes, and spades and tote out
the earth in buckets. Nothing but human bone and sinew would be employed, and the men would
be paid little, because without tools and knowledge they must always earn little. But America
puts brains, science, steam, electricity, machinery into the Big Ditch--Tools and Knowledge,
in other words--and she pays good wages because a man thus equipped does the work of ten men
whose only force is the force of muscle.

But Asia--deluded, foolish Asia--has scorned machinery. "The more work machinery does, the
less there will be for human beings to do. Men will be without work, and men without work will
starve." With this folly on her lips she has rejected the agencies that would have rescued
her from her never-ending struggle with starvation.

Oftentimes, we know, the same cry has been heard in England--and alas! even in America; our
labor unions even now sometimes lend a willing ear to such nonsense. There were riots in England
when manufacturers sought to introduce labor-saving methods in cotton-spinning; and when railroads
were introduced among us there were doubtless thousands of draymen, stage-drivers, and boatmen
who, if they had dared, would have torn up the rails and thrown them into the rivers, as the
Chinese did along the Yangtze-Kiang. With much the same feeling the old-time hand compositors
looked upon the coming of the typesetting machine.

And yet with all our engines doing the work of millions of draymen and cabmen, with all our
factory-machines doing the {180} work of hundreds of thousands of weavers and spinners, with
all our telegraphs and telephones taking the place of numberless messengers, runners, and errand
boys, and with a population, too, vastly in excess of the population when old-fashioned methods
prevailed, the fact stands out that labor has never been in greater demand and has never commanded
higher wages than to-day.

With a proper organization of industry it seems to me that it must ever be so--certainly as
far ahead as we can look into the future. When a machine is invented which enables one man
to do the work it formerly required two men to do in producing some sheer necessity for mankind,
an extra man is released or freed to serve mankind by the production of some comfort or luxury,
or by ministering to the things of the mind and the spirit.

And it is the duty of society and government, it may be said just here, to facilitate this
result, to provide education and equality of opportunity so that each man will work where his
effort will mean most in human service. Knowledge or education not only cuts the shackles which
chain a man down to a few occupations, not only sets him free to labor where he can work best,
but is also itself a productive agency--a tool with which a man may work better.

Take the simple fact that cowpeas gather nitrogen from the air: a man may harness this scientific
truth, use it and set it to work, and get results, profits, power, from it, as surely as from
a harnessed horse or steam engine. And so with every other useful bit of knowledge under heaven.
Knowledge is power.

{181}

{182}

  One of the pleasures of being "on the road to Mandalay" was to see
  the--

  "Elephints a-pilin' teak
  In the sludgy, squdgy creek"

  The elephants of Rangoon are as fascinating as the camels of Peking.
  But one never gets hardened to the every-day Oriental spectacle of
  human beings harnessed like oxen to weary burdens, many of which
  make those in the lower picture look light by comparison.

{180 continued}

All this doctrine Asia has rejected, or has never even got to the point of considering. In
America a motorman or conductor by means of tools and knowledge--a street-car for a tool and
the science of electricity for knowledge--transports forty people from one place to another.
These men are high-priced laborers considered from an Oriental standpoint and yet {183} it
costs you only five cents for your ride, and five minutes' time. In Peking, on the other hand,
it takes forty men pulling rickshaws to transport the forty passengers; and though the pullers
are "cheap laborers," it costs you more money and an hour's time to get to your destination--even
if you are so lucky as not to be taken to the wrong place.

Forty men to do the work that two would do at home! Men and women weavers doing work that machines
would do at home. Grain reaped with sickles instead of with horses and reapers as in America.
Sixteen men at Hankow to carry baggage that one man and a one-horse dray would carry in New
York. Women carrying brick, stone, and timber up the mountainside at Hong Kong--and the Chinese
threatened a general riot when the English built a cable-car system up the incline; they compelled
the owners to sign an agreement to transport passengers only--never freight! No sawmills in
the Orient, but thousands of men laboriously converting logs into lumber by means of whipsaws.
No pumps, even at the most used watering places, but buckets and ropes: often no windlass.
No power grain-mills, but men and women, and, in some cases, asses and oxen, doing the work
that the idle water-powers are given no chance to do.

These are but specimen illustrations. In the few industries where machinery and knowledge are
brought into play ordinary labor is as yet but little better paid than in other lines because
such industries are not numerous enough to affect the general level of wages. The net result
of her policy of refusing the help of machinery is that Asia has not doubled a man's chances
for work, but she has more than halved the pay he gets for that work. And why? Because she
has reduced his efficiency. A man must get his proportion of the common wealth, and where the
masses are shackled, hampered by ignorance and poor tools, they produce little, and each man's
share is little.

Suppose you are a merchant: what sort of trade could you hope for among a people who earn 10
cents a day--the head {184} of a family getting half enough to buy a single meal in a second-rate
restaurant? Or if you are a banker, what sort of deposits could you get among such a people?
Or if a railroad man, how much traffic? Or if a manufacturer, how much business? Or if a newspaper
man, how much circulation? Or if a doctor, lawyer, teacher, or preacher, how much income?

Very plain on the whole must be my two propositions:

(1) That the Asiatic laborer is poor, the American laborer well-to-do, because the Asiatic
earns little, the American much--a condition due to the fact that the American doubles, trebles,
or quadruples his productive capacity, his earning power, by the use of tools and knowledge,
machinery and education. The Oriental does not.

(2) Your prosperity, in whatever measure you have it; the fact that your labor earns two, three,
or ten times what you would get for it if you had been born in Asia; this is due in the main,
not to your personal merit, but to your racial inheritance, to the fact that you were born
among a people who have developed an industrial order, have provided education and machinery,
tools and knowledge, in such manner that your services to society are worth several times as
much as would be the case if you were in the Orient, where education has never reached the
common people.

Pity--may God pity!--the man who fancies he owes nothing to the school, who pays his tax for
education grudgingly as if it were a charity--as if he had only himself to thank for the property
on which the government levies a pitiable mill or so for the advancement and diffusion of knowledge
among mankind. Pity him if he has not considered; pity him the more if, having considered,
he is small enough of soul to repudiate the debt he owes the race. But for what education has
brought us from all its past, but for what it has wrought through the invention of better tools
and the better management (through increased knowledge) of all the powers with which men labor,
our close-fisted, short-sighted {185} taxpayer would himself be living in a shelter of brush,
shooting game with a bow and arrow, cultivating corn with a crooked stick! Most of what he
has he owes to his racial heritage; it is only because other men prosper that he prospers.
And yet owing so much to the Past, he would do nothing for the Future; owing so much to the
progress the race has made, he would do nothing to insure a continuance of that progress.

"Line upon line; precept upon precept." At the risk of possible redundancy, therefore, let
me conclude by repeating: Whatever prosperity you enjoy is largely due to what previous generations
have done for increasing man's efficiency by means of knowledge and tools; your first duty
to your fellows is to help forward the same agencies for human uplift in the future. And while
this is the first duty of the individual, it is even more emphatically the first duty of a
community or a commonwealth.

This is Asia's most important lesson for America.

Singapore, Straits Settlements.

{186}

XIX

THE STRAITS SETTLEMENTS AND BURMA

The Straits Settlements and Burma I have seen in the dead of winter, and yet with no suggestion
of snow, bare fields, or leafless trees. The luxuriant green of the foliage is never touched
by frost, and in Singapore, only seventy-seven miles from the equator, summer and winter are
practically alike.

"But you must remember that we are here in the wintertime," a fellow-traveller remarked when
another had expressed his surprise at not finding it hotter than it really was--the speaker
evidently forgetting that at the equator December is as much a summer month as July, and immediately
south of it what are the hot months with us become the winter months there. And Singapore is
so close to the equator that for it "all seasons are summer," and the punkah wallas (the coolies
who swing the big fans by which the rooms are made tolerable) must work as hard on Christmas
Day as on the Fourth of July.

The vegetation in the Straits Settlements is such as writers on the tropics have made familiar
to us. The graceful cocoanut palms are silhouetted against the sky in all directions; the dense,
heavy foliage of the banana trees is seen on almost every street; the sprawling, drunken banyan
tree, a confusion of roots and branches, casts its dense shadows on the grateful earth; and
all around the city are rubber plantations, immense pineapple fields, and uncleared jungle-land
in which wild beasts and poisonous serpents carry on the unending {187} life-and-death struggle
between the strong and the weak. Singapore, in fact, is said to have been called "the Lion
City" for a long while because of the great number of lions found in the neighborhood. I saw
the skins of elephants and tigers killed nearby, and also the skin of a Singapore alligator
fifteen feet long.

There is probably no place on earth in which there have been brought together greater varieties
of the human species than in Singapore. I was told that sixty languages are spoken in the city,
and if diversity of color may be taken as an indication of diversity of language, I am prepared
to believe it. There are many Indians or Hindus, most of them about as black as our negroes,
but with the features of the Caucasian in the main--sharp noses, thin lips, and straight glossy
black hair; but 72 per cent, of the population of Singapore is Chinese.

It is interesting to observe that John Chinaman seems to flourish equally in the Tropics and
in the Temperate Zone. Here in Singapore under an equatorial sun, or in Canton on the edge
of the Tropics, he seems as energetic, as unfailing in industry, as he is in wintry Mukden
or northern Mongolia. For hours after sunset many of the Chinese shops in Singapore present
as busy an appearance as at mid-day, and the pigtailed rickshaw men, with only a loin-cloth
about their bare bodies, seem to run as fast and as far as they would if they were in Peking.

The Chinese are a wonderful people, and I am more and more impressed with the thought of what
a hand they are to have in the world's affairs a hundred years hence when they get thoroughly
"waked up." They were first brought to Singapore, I understand, as common laborers, but now
their descendants are among the wealthiest men and women in the place and ride around in automobiles,
while descendants of their one-time employers walk humbly on the adjacent sidewalks. It is
a tribute to the untiring industry, shrewdness, and business skill of the Chinaman that nowadays
when people {188} anywhere speak of desiring Celestials as laborers, they add, "Provided they
are under contract to return to China when the work is finished, and do not remain to absorb
the trade and wealth of the country."

From Singapore we made a very interesting trip to Johore, a little kingdom about the size of
ten ordinary counties, and with a population of about 350,000. The soil and climate along the
route are well suited to the cultivation of rubber trees, and considerable areas have recently
been cleared of the dense jungle growth and set to young rubber plants. One of my friends who
has a rubber plantation north of Singapore says that while rubber is selling now at only $1.50
a pound as compared with $3 a pound a few months ago, there are still enormous profits in the
business, as the rubber should not cost over 25 cents a pound to produce. Some of the older
plantations paid dividends of 150 per cent, last year, and probably set aside something for
a rainy day in addition.

Yet not even these facts would have justified the wild speculation in rubber, the unreasoning
inflation in values, which proved a veritable "Mississippi Bubble" for so many investors in
Europe and Asia last year. Shares worth $5 or $10 were grabbed by eager buyers at $100 each.
I know of a specific instance where a plantation bought for $16,000 was capitalized at $230,000,
or 20 for 1, and the stock floated. When the madness had finally spent itself and people began
to see things as they were, not only individuals, but whole communities, found themselves prostrated.
Shanghai will not recover for years, and some of its citizens--the young fellow with a $1500
income who incurred a $30,000 debt in the scramble, for example--are left in practical bondage
for life as a result. The men who have gone into the rubber-growing industry on a strictly
business basis, however, are likely to find it profitable for a long time to come.

The cocoanut industry is also a profitable one, although the modest average of 10 per cent.,
year in and year out, has {189} not appealed to those who have been indulging in pipe dreams
about rubber. Where transportation facilities are good, the profits from cocoanuts probably
average considerably in excess of 10 per cent., for the trees require little care, and it is
easy for the owners to sell the product without going to any trouble themselves. In one section
of the Philippines, I know, the Chinese pay one peso (50 cents gold) a tree for the nuts and
pick them themselves. And when we consider the great number of the slim-bodied trees that may
grow upon an acre, it is not surprising to hear that many owners of cocoanut groves or plantations
live in Europe on the income from the groves, going to no trouble whatever except to have the
trees counted once a year.

Penang, where we spent only a day, is almost literally in the midst of an immense cocoanut
plantation, and I was much interested in seeing the half-naked Hindus gathering the unhusked
fruit for shipment. The tall, limbless trunks of the trees, surmounted only by a top-knot of
fruit and foliage, are in nearly every case gapped and notched at intervals of about three
feet to furnish toe-hold for the natives in climbing.

After tiffin on this winter day, instead of putting on gloves and overcoats, we went out on
a grassy lawn, clad in linen and pongee as we were, and luxuriated in the cool shade of the
palm trees. The dense foliage of the tropical jungle was in sight from our place by the seaside,
and in the garden not far away were cinnamon trees, cloves, orchids, rubber trees, the poisonous
upas, and palms of all varieties known.

Penang is a rather important commercial centre, and exports more tin than any other place on
earth. The metal is shipped in molten bars like lead or pig iron, and to one who has associated
tin only with light buckets, cups, and dippers, it is surprising how much strength it takes
to move a bar of the solid metal the size of a small watermelon.

The imports of Penang are also not inconsiderable, and in walking through the warehouses along
the wharves I was {190} struck by the number of boxes, crates, bales, and bundles bearing the
legend, "Made in Germany." The Germans are today the most aggressive commercial nation on earth,
and I find that their government and their business houses are searching every nook and corner
of the globe for trade openings. Unlike our American manufacturers, it may be observed just
here, they are quick to change the style of their goods to meet even what they may regard as
the whims of their customers, and this is an advantage of no small importance. If a manufacturer
wishes to sell plows in the Philippines, for example, it would not be worth while for him to
try to sell the thoroughly modern two-handled American kind to begin with. He should manufacture
an improved one-handled sort at first and try gradually to make the natives see the advantages
of using two handles. At present, as an American said to me in Manila, if you should seek to
sell a Filipino a two-handled plow he would probably say that two handles may be all right
for Americans who are not expert at plowing, but that the Filipino has passed that stage!

I mention this only by way of illustrating the necessity of respecting the custombre, or custom,
of the country. The Germans realize this, and we do not.

One day by steamer from Penang brought us to Rangoon, the capital and most important city in
Burma, and (next to Bombay and Calcutta) the most important in British India. We had heard
much of the place, situated thirty miles up the river "on the road to Mandalay," but found
that even then the half had not been told. If there were nothing else to see but the people
on the streets, a visit to Rangoon would be memorable, for nowhere else on earth perhaps is
there such butterfly-like gorgeousness and gaudiness of raiment. At a little distance you might
mistake a crowd for an enormous flower-bed. All around you are men and women wearing robes
that rival in brilliancy Joseph's coat of many colors.

The varieties in form of clothing are as great as the varieties {191} in hue. The Burmese babies
toddle about in beauty unadorned, and for the grown-ups there is every conceivable sort of
apparel--or the lack of it. Most of the laborers on the streets wear only a loin-cloth and
a turban (with the addition of a caste-mark on the forehead in case they are Hindus), but others
have loose-fitting red, green, yellow, blue, striped, ring-streaked or rainbow-hued wraps,
robes, shirts or trousers: and the women, of course, affect an equal variety of colors.

"The whackin' white cheroot" that the girl smoked in Kipling's "Road to Mandalay" is also much
in evidence here; or perhaps instead of the white cheroot it is an enormous black cigar. In
either case it is as large as a medium-sized corncob, that the newly landed tourist is moved
to stare thereat in open-eyed amazement. How do Kipling's verses go?

How many images of Buddha there are in the city it would be impossible to estimate--I saw them
not only in the pagodas, but newly carved in the shops which supply the Buddhist temples in
the interior--and the gilded dome of the Shwe Dagon Pagoda, "the most celebrated shrine of
the entire Buddhist world," glitters like a beacon for miles before you reach the city. Nearly
two thirds the height of the Washington Monument, it is gilded from top to bottom--with actual
gold leaf, Rangoon citizens claim--and around it are innumerable smaller pagodas and shrines
glittering with mosaics of colored glass in imitation of all the gems known to mortals. {192}
Studied closely, they appear unduly gaudy, of course, but your first impression is that you
have found a real Aladdin's palace, a dazzling, glittering dream of Oriental splendor and magnificence.
To these shrines there come to-day, as there have been coming for more than twenty centuries,
pilgrims from all lands where Buddha's memory is worshipped, pilgrims not only from Burma,
but from Siam, Ceylon, China, and Korea. I shall not soon forget the feeble looks of the old
white-haired pilgrim whom two women were helping up the steep ascent as I left the Pagoda after
my second visit there. I am glad for his sake, and for the sake of all the millions to whom
Buddha's doctrine is "the Light of Asia," that it is a religion at least without the degrading,
blighting tendencies of Hinduism, and that the smiling faces of the images about the Shwe Dagon
present at least some faint idea of a God who tempers justice with mercy and made human life
good rather than a God of cruelty who made life a curse and a mockery. Every traveller who
sees Buddhist Burma after having seen Hindu India comments on the greater cheerfulness and
hopefulness of the Burman people, and especially the happier lives of the women--all a result,
in the main, of the difference in religion.

And yet Burman Buddhism, in all conscience, is pitiable enough--its temples infested by fortune-tellers,
witches, and fakirs, its faith mingled with gross superstitions and charms to propitiate the
"nats" or spirits which are supposed to inhabit streams, forests, villages, houses, etc., and
to have infinite power over the lives and fortunes of the people. A common sight on the morning
streets is a group of yellow-robed priests with their begging bowls, into which pious Buddhists
put food and other offerings; without these voluntary offerings the priest must go hungry.
A curious custom in Burma, as in Siam, requires every youth to don the priestly robe for a
few days and get his living in this way.

The ordinary beast of burden in Rangoon is the Indian {193} bullock. Often pure white, usually
with a well-kept appearance and with a clean, glossy coat of short hair, he looks as if he
should be on the way to a Roman sacrifice with garlands about his head. Teams of black Hindus,
three quarters naked, are also seen pulling heavy carts and drays; and it may be that the small
boys utilize the long-eared goats (they have heavy, drooping ears like a foxhound's) to pull
their small carts, but this I do not know. The work-beast of the city that interested me most
was the elephant, and henceforth the elephants of Rangoon shall have a place alongside the
camels of Peking in my memory and affection. Of course, the elephants of Rangoon are not so
numerous as are the camels in China's capital, but those that one sees display an intelligence
and certain human-like qualities that make them fascinating.

One morning I got up early and went to McGregor & Co.'s lumber yard at Ahloon on the Irrawaddy
to see the trained elephants there handle the heavy saw-logs which it is necessary to move
from place to place. It was better than a circus.

  "Elephants a-pilin' teak
  In the sludgy, squdgy creek."

It is very clear that my lord the Elephant, like most other beings in the Tropics, doesn't
entirely approve of work. What he did at Ahloon on the morning of my visit he did with infinite
deliberation, and he stopped much to rest between tugs. Also when some enormous log, thirty
or forty feet long and two or three feet thick, was given him to pull through the mire, he
would roar mightily at each hard place, getting down on his knees sometimes to use his strength
to better advantage, and one could hardly escape the conclusion that at times he "cussed" in
violent Elephantese. The king of the group, a magnificent tusker, pushed the logs with his
snout and tusks, while the others pulled them with chains. But the most marvellous thing is
how the barefooted, half-naked driver, or mahout, astride the great giant's shoulders, makes
him {194} understand what to do in each case by merely kicking his neck or prodding his ears.

At one time while I watched, a tuskless elephant or mutna got his log stuck in the mud and
was tugging and roaring profanely about his trials, when the tusker's mahout bid that royal
beast go help his troubled brother. Straightway, therefore, went the tusker, leaving great
holes in the mud at each footprint as if a tree had been uprooted there, gave a mighty shove
to the recalcitrant log, and there was peace again in the camp.

For stacking lumber the elephant is especially useful. Any ordinary sized log, tree or piece
of lumber he will pick up as if it were a piece of stovewood and tote with his snout, and in
piling heavy plank he is remarkably careful about matching. Eying the pile at a distance, he
looks to see if it is uneven or any single piece out of place, in which case he is quick to
make it right. The young lady in our party was also much amused when the mahout called out,
"Salaam to memsahib" ("Salute the lady"), and his lordship bowed and made his salutation as
gracefully as his enormous head and forelegs would permit.

One of my fellow-passengers, a rubber planter from the Straits Settlements, has worked elephants,
has used them on the plantation and as help in building bridges, and has told me some interesting
stories concerning them. He had two--one a tusker worth 2500 rupees, or $833-1/3, and the other
a mutna (without tusks) worth 2250 rupees, or $750. On one occasion the mutna heard "the call
of the wild," and went back to the jungle. Evidently, though, his wild brethren didn't like
the civilized ways he brought back with him, for when he returned home later two thirds of
his tail had been pulled off, and he bore other marks of struggle on his body. The tusker on
one occasion ran mad (as they will do now and then) and killed one of his keepers.

I was also interested to hear how a wild elephant is caught. Driven into a stockade, the tamed
elephants close in {195} on him, and the mahouts get him well chained before he knows what
has happened. For a day or two he remains in enforced bondage, then two or three of the great
tamed creatures take him out for a walk or down to the river where he may drink and bathe himself.
Moreover, the other mahouts set about taming him--talk to him in the affectionate, soothing,
half hypnotizing way which Kipling has made famous in his stories, and stroke his trunk from
discreet but gradually lessening distances. In a couple of months "my lord the Elephant" is
fully civilized, responds promptly to the suggestions of his mahout, and a little later adopts
some useful occupation.

In Siam the elephants are much used in managing the immense rafts of teak trees that are floated
down the rivers for export. My friend the rubber planter has also had one or two good travelling
elephants on which he used to travel through the jungle from one plantation to the other, a
distance of twenty-five miles. On more than one occasion he has run into a herd of wild elephants
in making this trip. On good roads, elephants kept only for riding purposes will easily make
seven miles an hour, moving with a long, easy stride, which, however, they are likely to lose
if set to heavy work.

Perhaps the greatest difficulty about the elephant is the great quantity of food required to
keep him going. Eight hundred pounds a day will barely "jestify his stummuck," as Uncle Remus
would say, and when he gets hungry "he wants what he wants when he wants it," and trumpets
thunderously till he gets it. The skipper on a Singapore-Rangoon steamer told of having had
a dozen or more on board a few months ago, and their feed supply becoming exhausted, they waxed
mutinous and wrathy, evincing a disposition to tear the whole vessel to pieces, when the ship
fortunately came near enough to land to enable the officers to signal for a few tons of feed
to be brought aboard for the elephants' breakfast.

I haven't seen a white elephant yet, but in the Shwe Dagon {196} Temple I found a lively eight-months-old
youngster, an orphan from Mandalay, that could eat bananas twice as fast as my Burmese boy-guide
and I could peel them, and the boy-guide in question assured me that he will turn white by
the time he is two or three years old. Which would be very interesting if true, but I fear
it isn't.

I am now hurrying on to India proper and must conclude my impression of Burma with this letter.
In Rangoon the lighter-skinned and lighter-hearted Burmese contrast rather notably with the
dark and serious Hindus. Many of the Hindus are in Burma only temporarily. One ship that I
saw coming into Rangoon from the Coromandel Coast, India, was literally spilling over with
3000 brown Hindu coolies. They will work through the Burman rice harvest--rice is the one great
crop of the country--at eight to twelve annas (16 to 24 cents) a day, and after three or four
months of this will return home. Because they are so poor at home the steamship charges only
ten rupees ($3) for bringing them to Rangoon, but requires fifteen rupees for carrying them back.

Nor should I fail to mention another thing that impressed me very much in Rangoon: the graves
of the English officers who were killed in the war with the Burmans many years ago, and are
now buried within the walls of the picturesque old Buddhist Temple. True it is that the sun
never sets on the English flag; and one finds much to remind him, too, that the sun never sets
on the graves of that flag's defenders. Scattered through every zone and clime are they: countless
thousands of them far, far from the land that gave them birth. Nearby the place where those
of the Shwe Dagon sleep I stood on the temple walls and looked out on the fading beauty of
the tropic sunset, the silvery outline of the Irrawaddy River breaking into the darkening green
of the jungle growth. And then came up the cool night breeze of the Torrid Zone--more refreshing
and delightful than our Temperate climate ever knows. As gentle and caressing as a mother's
lullaby, how {197} it crooned among the foliage of the cocoanut palms, whispered among the
papaya leaves, and how joyously the great blades of the bananas welcomed it!

With that fair view before our eyes, with the breezes as if of Araby the Blest making mere
existence a joy, we take our leave of Burma.

Rangoon, Bunna.

{198}

XX

HINDUISM--AND THE HIMALAYAS

If it were any other country but India, I might write last of the religion the people profess,
but, since it is India, it is the first thing to be considered. Religion is the supreme fact
of Indian life-- if we may call religion what has been more properly defined as "a sacred disease."

Certainly nowhere else on earth is there a country where the entire life of the people is so
molded by their spiritual beliefs. Two children are born the same day. The one, of high-caste
parentage, Brahminism has irrevocably decreed shall be all his life, no matter how stupid or
vicious, a privileged and "superior" being, to whom all lower orders must make obeisance. The
other, born of a Dom father and mother, Brahminism has decreed shall be all his life, no matter
how great his virtue or brilliant his mind, an outcast whose mere touch works pollution worse
than crime. And through the lifetime of each, Brahminism, or Hinduism, as the supreme religion
of India is called, will exercise over him an influence more potent and incessant than any
civil government has ever exercised over its subjects.

About theoretical or philosophical Hinduism there is admittedly a certain measure of moral
beauty, but to get even this from Hindu literature one must wade through cesspools of filth
and obscenity and must shut his eyes to pitiably low ideals of Deity, while in its practical
manifestations modern Hinduism is the most sickening combination of superstition, idolatry,
and {199} vice that now disgraces the name of religion in any considerable portion of the earth.
The idea of the transmigration of souls, "Samsara," the belief that you have had millions of
births (as men and animals) and may have millions more (unless you earlier merit the favor
of the gods and win release from life), and that what you are in your present life is the result
of actions in previous existence, and what you do in this present existence will influence
all your future rebirths--this is a doctrine that might be a tremendous moral force if it were
linked with such ideals as distinguish the Christian religion. In practical Hinduism, however,
the emphasis is not on worthy living, not on exalted moral conduct, as the thing essential
to divine favor, but on rites and ceremonies, regard for the priests, rigid observance of caste,
sacred bathing, and the offering of proper sacrifices to fickle or bloodthirsty gods and goddesses.
In their religion no Isaiah makes terrible and effective protest against the uselessness of
form; no Christ teaches that God can be worshipped only in spirit.

Another doctrine, that Self, that a man's own soul is an Emanation of God, a part of the Divine
Essence, and the purpose of man's existence to hasten a final absorption into God--this also
(although destructive of the idea of individuality, the sacredness of personality, so fundamental
in Christian thought) would seem to be a tremendous moral force, but it is vitiated in much
the same way as is the idea of Samsara, while it is further weakened by the fact that the Hindu
gods themselves are often represented as immoral, bloodthirsty, obscene and criminal.

Enmeshed in vicious traditions and false doctrine, its philosophy and purer teachings known
only to a cultured few, the Higher Hinduism "powerless to be born," is only the illusion which
it would teach that all else is, while practical Hinduism hangs like a blight over a land whose
people are as the sands of the sea for multitude. If all the human race alive to-day were to
pass in review before you, every eighth person in the {200} ranks would be a Hindu. And to
realize in what manner Hinduism guides its 200,000,000 followers it is only necessary to visit
some of their most celebrated temples.

It is an extreme illustration, no doubt, but since it was the first Hindu shrine I visited,
we may begin with the Kalighat in Calcutta. This temple is dedicated to Kali, or "Mother Kali,"
as the English-speaking temple priest who conducted me always said, the bloody goddess of destruction.
That terrible society of criminals and assassins, the Thugs (its founder is worshipped as a
saint), had Kali as their patron goddess and whetted their knives and planned their murderous
crimes before her image: all this in a "temple" of "religion."

The representations of Kali befit her character. Fury is in her countenance and in her three
red eyes. Her tongue lolls from her mouth. In one of her four hands is the dripping, bloody
head of a slaughtered enemy. Her necklace is of the heads of her slain. Her girdle is the severed
hands of the dead men. Tradition says that she constantly drinks blood; and each man who comes
to worship her brings a little wet, trembling kid: the warm blood that flows after the priestly
ax has done its work is supposed to please the terrible goddess. The morning of my visit there
were sacrifices every few minutes, and on the great day of Kali-worship, in October, the place
runs ankle-deep in blood.

In the old days--and not so long ago at that--there were human sacrifices at Kalighat, and
when I asked the priest concerning them, his significant answer was that the British Government
would no longer allow them. He made no claim that Hinduism itself has changed! Their Kaliki
Purana says that one human sacrifice delights Kali for a thousand years, and in spite of British
alertness a bloody human head bedecked with flowers was found in a Kali temple near Calcutta
not many years ago, and at Akrha, also near Calcutta, human sacrifice has been attempted within
a decade.

From the Kalighat temple the priest of Mother Kali took me {201} to the edge of the dirty,
murky Hoogli (sacred as a part of the Ganges system), where in its consecrated filth scores
of miserable pilgrims were washing away their sins or "acquiring merit" with the gods. On the
way we passed the image of Juggernaut, the miserable stable-like shelters in which the pilgrims
are lodged, and the image of Setola, "the Mother of the Smallpox," as the priest called her,
to which smallpox victims come for cure. Back again to the temple, the priest assured me that
if I would give the other priests a few annas (an anna is worth 2 cents of our money) they
would drive back the shrieking, bloodstained, garlanded crowds of half-naked "worshippers"
and give me a view of the Kali idol. The money forthcoming--and the high priest, in expectation
of a tip, coming out to lend his assistance--there ensued such a Kilkenny fight between the
priests and the dense mob of "worshippers," such knocking, kicking, scrouging, as never any
man got for the same amount of money in any prize-fight, until finally I got a swift glimpse
of the idol's hideous head.

Then having paid the greedy priest and the high priest (like the daughters of the horseleech
they always cry for "more") I went back to my hotel, properly edified, let us believe, by this
spectacle of Hindu "religion."

It was Sunday morning.

Could I have been otherwise than impressed when I went that afternoon to another Indian religious
service--this time of Christians--and compared it with what I had seen in the morning? Instead
of a money-hunting priest sitting beside a butcher's block and exacting a prescribed fee from
each pushing, jabbering, suppliant of a bloodthirsty goddess, herself only one of the many
jealous gods and goddesses to be favored and propitiated--instead of this there was a converted
Indian minister who told his fellows of one God whose characteristic is love, and whose worship
is of the spirit. And instead of the piteous bleating of slaughtered beasts there was the fine
rhythm of hymns whose English names one could easily {202} recognize from their tunes in spite
of the translation of the words into the strange tongue of the Bengali.

At home, I may say just here, I am not accused of being flagrantly and outrageously pious;
but no open-minded, observant man, even if he were an infidel, could make a trip through Asia
without seeing what a tremendously uplifting influence is the religion to which the majority
of Americans adhere as compared with the other faiths, and how tremendously in Christian lands
it has bettered and enriched the lives even of those of

  "Deaf ear and soul uncaring"

who ignore it or deride it. In no spirit of cant and with no desire to preach, I set down these
things, simply because they are as obvious as temples or scenery to any Oriental traveller
who travels with open eyes and open mind.

But let us now go to Benares, the fountain-head of the Hindu faith, the city which is to it
what Mecca is to Mohammedanism and more than Jerusalem is to Christianity. And Benares is so
important that I must give more than a paragraph to my impressions of it.

The view of the river-front from the sacred Ganges I found surprisingly majestic and impressive.
The magnificent, many-storied pilgrim-houses, built long ago by wealthy princes anxious to
win the favor of the gods, tower like mountains from the river bank. A strange mingling of
many styles and epochs of Oriental architecture are they, and yet mainly suggestive of the
palaces and temples that lined the ancient Nile. An earthquake, too, has heightened the effect
by leaving massive ruins, the broken bases of gigantic columns, that seem to whisper tales
even older than any building now standing in Benares. For Benares, although its present structures
are modern, was old when the walls of Rome were built; it was historic when David sat on the
throne of Israel.

But while one may find elsewhere structures not greatly {203} unlike these beside the Sacred
River, nowhere else on earth may one see crowds like these--crowds that overflow the acres
and acres of stone steps leading up from the river's edge through the maze of buildings and
spill off into the water. There are indeed all sorts and conditions of men and women. Princes
come from afar with their gorgeous retinues and stately equipages, and go down into the bathing-places
calling on the names of their gods as trustingly as the poor doomed leper who thinks that the
waters of Mother Gunga may bring the hoped-for healing of his body. Wealthy, high-caste women
whose faces no man ever sees except those that be of their own households--they too must not
miss the blessing for soul and body to be gained in no other way, and so they are brought in
curtained, man-borne palki and are taken within boats with closed sides, where they bathe apart
from the common herd. Men and women, old and young, high and low (except the outcasts)--all
come. There are once-brown Hindus with their skins turned to snowy whiteness by leprosy, men
with limbs swollen to four or five times natural size by elephantiasis, palsied men and women
broken with age, who hope to win Heaven (or that impersonal absorption into the Divine Essence
which is the nearest Hindu approach to our idea of Heaven) by dying in the sacred place.

A great many pilgrims--may God have pity, as He will, on their poor untutored souls--die in
despair, worn out by weakness and disease, ere they reach Benares with its Balm of Gilead which
they seek; but many other aged or afflicted ones die happier for the knowledge that they have
reached their Holy City, and that their ashes, after the quick work of the morrow's funeral
pyre, will be thrown on the waters of the Ganges. "Rama, nama, satya hai" (The name of Rama
is true): so I heard the weird chant as four men bore past me the rigid red-clad figure of
a corpse for the burning. No coffins are used. The body is wrapped in white if a man's, in
red if a woman's, strapped on light bamboo poles, and before {204} breakfast-time the burning
wood above and beneath the body has converted into a handful of ashes that which was a breathing
human being when the sun set the day before.

Other writers have commented on the few evidences of grief that accompany these Hindu funerals.
In Calcutta mourners are sometimes hired--for one anna a Hindu can get a professional mourner
to wail heart-breakingly at the funeral of his least-loved mother-in-law--but somehow the relatives
of the dead themselves seem to show little evidence of grief. "But where are the bereaved families?"
I asked a Hindu priest as we looked at a few groups of men and woman sitting and talking around
the fires from whence came the gruesome odor of burning human flesh. "Oh, those are the families
you see there," he replied. And sure enough they were--I suppose--although I had thought them
only the persons hired to help in the cremation. One ghastly feature of the funerals occurs
when the corpse is that of a father. Just before the cremation is concluded it is the son's
duty--in some places I visited, at least--to take a big stick and crack the skull in order
to release his father's spirit!

But, after all, reverting to the question of mourning, why should the Hindu mourn for his dead?
Human life, in his theology, is itself a curse, and after infinite rebirths, the soul running
its course through the bodies of beasts and men, the ultimate good, the greatest boon to be
won from the propitiated gods, is "remerging in the general soul," the Escape from Being, Escape
from the Illusions of Sense and Self; not Annihilation itself but the Annihilation of Personality,
of that sense of separateness from the Divine which our encasement in human bodies gives us.
Where Christianity teaches that you are a son of God and that you will maintain a separate,
conscious, responsible identity throughout eternity, Hinduism teaches that your spirit is a
part of the Divine and will ultimately be reabsorbed into it. Its doctrine in this respect
is much like that of Buddhism. Inevitably neither religion {207} lays that emphasis on personality,
the sacredness of the individual life, which is inherent in Christianity and Christian civilization,
just as the absence of this principle is characteristic of the social and political institutions
of the Orient.

{205}

  India has not a homogeneous population. There are almost as many
  races, types, and languages as in the continent of Europe. The
  right-hand figure in the upper picture bears a striking resemblance
  to a North American Indian. The instrument in his hands is a
  praying-wheel.

{206}

  TWO RANGOON TYPES.

  Rangoon is a city of gorgeous colors and varied human types.

{207 continued}

But let us get back to Benares and its pilgrims. They do not all die, nor do they spend all
their time bathing in the sacred waters of "Mother Gunga," as the Ganges is called. Naturally
there are many temples in which they must worship, many priests whom they must support. There
are said to be 2000 temples in Benares and the high priest of one of them--while sparring for
a bigger tip for his services--told me that he was at the head of 400 priests supported by
his establishment alone (the Golden Temple).

And such temples as they are! I have seen the seamy side of some great cities, but for crass
and raw vulgarity and obsceneness there are "temples" in Benares--so-called "temples" that
should minister to man's holier nature, with so-called "priests" to act as guides to their
foulness--that could give lessons to a third-rate Bowery den. No wonder that the Government
of India, when it made a law against indecent pictures and carvings, had to make a special
exception for Hindu "religious"(!) pictures. There is a limit, however, even to the endurance
of the British Government, and at the Nepalese Temple I was told that the authorities do not
allow such structures to be built now. Moreover, it is not only admitted that the temples in
many parts of India are the resort of the lowest class of women, "temple girls" dedicated to
gods and goddesses, but their presence is openly defended as proper.

Most of the temples in Benares, too, are as far from cleanliness as they are from godliness.
The Golden Temple with its sacred cows penned up in dirty stalls, its ragged half-naked worshippers,
its holy cesspool known as "The Well of Knowledge," its hideous, leprosy-smitten beggars, its
numerous emblems of its lustful god Krishna, and its mercenary priests, {208} is a good illustration.
And the famous Monkey Temple (dedicated like the Kalighat to Mother Kali) I found no more attractive.
This temple is open to the sky and the most loathsome collection of dirty monkeys that I have
ever had the misfortune to see were scrambling all around the place, while the monkey-mad,
bloodstained, goat-killing priests, preying on the ignorance of the poor, and itching for a
few annas in tips, won a place in my disgust second only to that occupied by their monkey companions.
I left and went out to the gate where the snake-charmers were juggling with a dozen hissing
cobras. It was pleasanter to look at them.

That night an eminent English artist, temporarily in Benares, discoursed to me at length though
vaguely on the beauties of Hindu religious theory, but what I had seen during the day did not
help his argument. Emerson's phrase may well be applied to Hinduism, "What you are speaks so
loud that I cannot hear what you say."

Not that it has anything to do with Hinduism but simply to get a better taste in the mouth
at the end, let us turn in conclusion to a happier subject. Some days ago I went to Darjeeling
on the boundary of northern India and on the edge of the great Himalaya mountain range. In
sight from its streets and from nearby peaks are the highest mountains formed by the Almighty's
hand, the sublimest scenery on which the eye of mortal man may ever rest.

Long before daylight one morning I bestrode a sure-footed horse and wound my way, with two
friends of a day, as friends on a foreign tour are likely to prove, to the top of Tiger Hill,
from which point we looked across the boundaries of Tibet and saw the sun rise upon a view
whose majesty defied description. In the distance on our left there glittered in its mantle
of everlasting snow, and with its twin attendants, the summit of Mt. Everest, 29,002 feet high,
the highest mountain on the surface of the earth. Even grander was the view directly in front
of us, for there only one third as far away as Everest, royal {209} Kinchinjunga shouldered
out the sky, its colossal, granite masses, snow-covered and wind-swept, towering in dread majesty
toward the very zenith. Monarch of a white-clad semicircle of kingly peaks it stood, while
the sun, not yet risen to our view, colored the pure-white of its crest with a blush of rose-tint,
and in a minute or two had set the whole vast amphitheatre a-glitter with the warm hues of
its earliest rays. Across forty-five miles of massive chasms and rugged foothills (these "foothills"
themselves perhaps as high as the highest Alps or Rockies) we looked to where, thousands of
feet higher yet, there began the eternal snow-line of Kinchinjunga, above which its further
bulk of 11,000 additional feet formed a dazzling silhouette against the northern sky. Stand
at the foot of Pike's Peak and imagine another Pike's Peak piled on top; stand at the foot
of Mount Mitchell and imagine four other Mount Mitchells on top of one another above its highest
point--the massive bulk in either case stretching thousands and thousands of feet above the
line of everlasting snow. Such is Kinchinjunga.

Spellbound we watched as if forbidden intruders upon a view it was not meet for any but the
high gods themselves to see. About it all was a suggestion of illimitableness, of more than
earthly majesty, of infinite serenity and measureless calm, which sat upon our spirits with
a certain eerie unworldliness.

It only confirmed an almost inevitable conjecture when I learned later that it was in sight
of the Himalayas that Gautama Buddha dreamed his dream of the Nirvana and of its brooding and
endless peace in which man's fretful spirit--

  "From too much love of living
   From hope and fear set free"--

may find at last the rest that it has sought in vain through all our human realm of Time and Place.

Lucknow, India.

{210}

XXI

"THE POOR BENIGHTED HINDUS"

GREAT indeed are the uses of Poetry. Consider by way of illustration how accurately and comprehensively
some forgotten bard in four short lines has pictured for us the true condition of the inhabitants
of England's great Indian Empire:

  "The poor, benighted Hindu,
  He does the best he kin do
  He sticks to his caste from first to last.
  And for pants he makes his skin do."

A Mr. Micawber might dilate at length upon how this achievement in verse informs us (1) as
to the financial condition of the people, to wit, they are "poor," the average annual income
having been estimated at only $10, and the average wages for day labor in the capital city
of India only 6 to 20 cents per diem; (2) as to their intellectual condition, "benighted,"
ninety men in each hundred being unable to read or write any language, while of every thousand
Indian women 993 are totally illiterate; (3) as to the social system, each man living and dying
within the limits of the caste into which he is born; and (4) as to the clothing, garb or dress
of the inhabitants (or the absence thereof), the children of both sexes being frequently attired
after the manner of our revered First Parents before they made the acquaintance of the fig
tree, while the adults also dispense generally with trousers, shoes, and stockings, and other
impedimenta of our over-developed civilization.

{211}

Great indeed are the uses of poetry. In all my letters from India I shall hardly be able to
do more than expand and enlarge upon the great fundamental truths so eloquently set forth in
our four-line poetry piece.

If it be sound logic to say that "God must have loved the common people because he made so
many of them," then the Creator must also have a special fondness for these "poor benighted
Hindus," for within an area less than half the size of the United States more than 300,000,000
of them live and move and have their being. That is to say, if the United States were as thickly
populated as India, it would contain 600,000,000 people. It is also said that when the far-flung
battle-line of Imperial Rome had reached its uttermost expansion that great empire had within
its borders only half as many people as there are in India to-day. India and its next-door
neighbor, China, contain half the population of the whole earth. In other words, if the Chinese
and East Indians were the equals of the other races in military prowess the combined armies
of all other nations on the globe, of every nation in Europe, North America, South America,
Africa, Australia, the Isles of the Sea, and of the rest of Asia, would be required to defeat them.

Obviously, such a considerable portion of the human family calls for special study. And if
we would study them we must not confine ourselves to a tour of a few cities in North India,
interesting as these cities are.

The significant man in India (where about eight tenths of the people live on the soil) is not
the trader, a city-dweller in these few large centres of population, but the ryot or farmer,
in the thousands and thousands of little mud-house villages between the Himalaya slopes and
Cape Comorin. The significant economic fact in India is not the millions of dollars once spent
on royal palaces but the $7 to $30 spent in building this average peasant's home or hut. The
significant social fact is not the income of some ancient Mogul or some modern Rajah {212}
estimated in lakhs of rupees, but the five or six cents a day which is a laborer's wage for
millions and millions of the people.

For these reasons I have been no more interested in the famous cities I have seen than in the
little rural villages whose names may have never found place in an English book. Let us get,
if we can, a pen picture of one of these villages in north central India.

As I approached it from a distance it looked like an enormous mass of ant-hills, for the low
windowless one-story huts, as has been suggested, are made of yellowish sun-dried clay, and
are often roofed with clay also--made flat on top with a little trench or gutter for drainage.
Perhaps the majority, however, have thick sloping roofs of straw, the eaves being hardly as
high as a man's head. Very thick are the mud walls of the houses, eighteen inches or more in
most cases, and as the floor is also the bare earth, there is no woodwork about such a dwelling
except the doors and a few poles to hold up the roof. In one or two small rooms of this kind
without a window or chimney (oftener perhaps in one room than in two) a whole family lives,
cooks, and sleeps.

{213}

  The faquirs do not like to be photographed, and this follow in the
  upper picture was snapped just in the act of rising from his bed of
  spikes. This is only one of many methods of self-torture practised
  in the hope of winning the favor of the gods.

{214}

{212 continued}

The streets, if such they may be called, are often little more than crooked water-rutted paths,
so narrow that one may reach from the mud walls of the houses on one side to the mud walls
on the other, and so crooked that you are likely to meet yourself coming back before you get
to the end. Or perhaps you wind up unexpectedly in some mahullah--a group of huts representing
several families of kinsfolk. Enclosed by a mud wall, the little brown bright-eyed, black-haired,
half-naked children are playing together in the little opening around which the houses are
bunched, and the barefooted mothers are cooking chapatis, spinning cotton on knee-high spinning
wheels, weaving in some wonderfully primitive way, gathering fuel, or are engaged in other
household tasks. The equipment of one of these human ant-hills, called a home, is about as
primitive as the building itself. There is, of course, a bed or cot: it is about {215} half
knee-high, and the heavy twine or light rope knitted together after the fashion of a very coarse
fish-net is the only mattress. The coarse grain which serves for food is stored in jars; the
meagre supply of clothing hangs in one corner of the room; there are no chairs, knives or forks.
The stove or fireplace is a sort of small clay box for the fire, with an opening on top for
the kettle or oven. In one corner of the room is the fuel: a few small sticks and dried refuse
from cow stalls that Americans use for fertilizing their fields. "We have found rather bad
results," a missionary told me, "from providing Indian girls with mattresses, chairs, knives,
forks, etc., at our mission schools. Later, when they marry our native workers, the $5-a-month
income of the family (which is about all they can expect) is insufficient to provide these
luxuries, and the girl's recollections of former comforts are likely to prove a source of dissatisfaction
to her."

At first you ask, "But why are there no windows in the houses? Surely the people could leave
openings in the clay walls that would give light and ventilation?" The answer is that most
of the year the weather is so hot that the hope of the owner is to get as nearly cave-like
conditions as possible; to find, as it were, a cool place in the earth, untouched by the fiery
glare of the burning sun outside. Even in north central India in the houses of the white men,
where everything has been done to reduce the temperature and with every punkah-fan swinging
the room's length to make a breeze, the temperature in May and June is 106 or higher, and at
midnight in the open air the thermometer may reach 105. "It is then no uncommon thing," a friend
in Agra told me, "to find even natives struck down dead by the roadside; and the railways have
men designated to take and burn the bodies of those who succumb to the heat in travel by the cars."

In such a warm climate the dress of the people, as has already been suggested, is not very
elaborate. In fact, the garb of the adult man is likely to be somewhat like the uniform of
the {216} Gunga Din (the Indian bhisti or water-carrier for the British regiment):

  "The uniform 'e wore
  Was nothin' much before
  An' rather less than 'arf o' that be'ind--
  For a twisty piece o' rag
  And a goatskin water-bag
  Was all the field equipment 'e could find."

In cold weather, however, the majority of the men are rather fully covered, and in any case
they add a turban or cap of some gaudy hue to the uniform just suggested.

As for the dress of the women, a typical woman's outfit will consist of, say, a crimson skirt
with a green border, a navy-blue piece of cloth as large as a sheet draped loosely (and quite
incompletely) around the head and upper part of the body, and a breast-cloth or possibly a
waist of brilliant yellow. This combination of hues, of course, is only a specimen. The actual
colors are variable but the brilliancy is invariable.

Furthermore, the celebrated Old Lady of Banbury Cross, who boasted of rings, on her fingers
and bells on her toes, would find her glory vanish in a twinkling should she visit India. Not
content with these preliminary beginnings of adornment, the barefooted Hindu woman wears--if
she can afford it--a band or two of anklets, bracelets halfway from wrist to elbow, armlets
beyond the elbow, ear-rings of immense size, a necklace or two, toe-rings and a bejewelled
nose-ring as big around as a turnip. Sometimes the jewelry on a woman's feet will rattle as
she walks like the trace-chains on a plow-horse on the way to the barn.

This barbaric display of jewelry, it should be said, is not made solely for purposes of show.
The truth is that the native has not grown used to the idea of savings banks (although the
government is now gradually convincing him that the postal savings institutions are safe),
and when he earns a spare rupee he puts it into jewelry to adorn the person of himself or {217}
his wife. If all the idle treasures which the poor of India now carry on their legs, arms,
ears, and noses were put into productive industry, a good deal might be done to alleviate the
misery for which the agitators profess to blame the British Government.

Calcutta, India.

{218}

XXII

HINDU FARMING AND FARM LIFE

In the rural villages, of course, the majority of the inhabitants are farmers, who fare afield
each morning with their so-called plows or other tools for aiding the growth of their crops.
The Indian plow is, I believe, the crudest I have found in any part of the wide world. It consists
of a simple handle with a knob at the top; a block of wood with an iron spike in it about an
inch thick at one end and tapering to a point at the other; and a tongue to which the yoke
of bullocks are attached. The pointed spike is, perhaps, sixteen inches long, but only a fraction
of it projects from the wooden block into which it is fastened, and the ordinary plowing consists
only of scratching the two or three inches of the soil's upper crust.

The Allabahad Exposition was designed mainly to interest the farmers in better implements,
and its Official Handbook, in calling attention to the exhibit of improved plows, declared:

  "The ordinary Indian plow is, for certain purposes, about as
  inefficient as it could be. Strictly speaking it is not a plow at
  all. It makes a tolerably efficient seed-drill, a somewhat
  inefficient cultivator, but it is quite incapable of breaking up
  land properly."

The other tools in use on the Indian farm are fit companions for the primitive plow. Some one
has said that 75 cents would buy the complete cultivating outfit of the Hindu ryot! I saw men
cutting up bullock-feed with a sort of hatchet; the threshing methods are centuries old; the
little sugarcane mills {219} I found in operation here and there could have been put into bushel
baskets. The big ox carts, which together with camel carts meet all the requirements of travel
and transportation, are also heavy and clumsy, having wheels as big as we should use on eight-horse
log-wagons at home. These wheels are without metal tires of any kind, and the average cost
of one of the carts, a village carpenter told me, is $25.

As to the other crops grown by the Indian ryot, or farmer, I cannot perhaps give a better idea
than by quoting the latest statistics as to the number of acres planted to each as I obtained
them from the government authorities in Calcutta.

  Rice                     73,000,000
  Wheat                    21,000,000
  Barley                    8,000,000
  Millets                  41,000,000
  Maize                     7,000.000
  Other grains             47,000,000
  Fodder crops              5,000,000
  Oilseeds: linseed,
    mustard, sesamum, etc. 14,000,000
  Sugarcane                 2,250,000
  Cotton                   13,000,000
  Jute                      3,000,000
  Opium (for China)           416,000
  Tobacco                   1,000,000
  Orchard and garden        5,000,000

It is somewhat surprising to learn that of the 246,000,000 acres under cultivation to supply
300,000,000 people (the United States last year cultivated 250,000,000 acres to supply 90,000,000)
only 28,000,000 acres were cropped more than once during the year. With the warm climate of
India it would seem that two or more crops might be easily grown, but the annual dry season
makes this less feasible than it would appear to the traveller. Even in January much artificial
crop-watering must be done, and no one can travel in India long without growing used to the
sight of the irrigation wells. Around them the earth is piled high, and oxen hitched to the
well ropes draw up the water in collapsible leather bags or buckets. A general system of elevated
ditches then distributes the water where it is needed.

Concerning the drought, a resident of Muttra said to me that {220} there practically no rain
falls from the middle of January to the middle of June. "In the latter part of the drought,"
he said, "the fields assume the appearance of deserts; only the dull green of the tree-leaves
varies the vast, monotonous graybrown of the far-stretching plains. The streams are dried up;
the cattle hunt the parched fields in vain for a bit of succulence to vary their diet of dry
grass. But at last there comes the monsoon and the rains--and then the Resurrection Morning.
The dead earth wakens to joyous fruitfulness, and what was but yesterday a desert has become
a veritable Garden of Eden."

But, alas! sometimes the rains are delayed--long, tragically long delayed! The time for their
annual return has come--has passed, and still the pitiless sun scorches the brown earth as
if it would set afire the grass it has already burned to tinder-dryness. The ryot's scanty
stock of grain is running low, the daily ration has been reduced until it no longer satisfies
the pangs of hunger, and with each new sunrise gaunt Famine stalks nearer to the occupants
of the mud-dried hut. The poor peasant lifts vain hands to gods who answer not; unavailingly
he sacrifices to Shiva, to Kali, to all the heartless Hindu deities of destruction and to unnamed
demons as well. The Ancient Terror of India approaches; from time immemorial the vengeful drought
has slain her people in herds, like plague-stricken cattle, not by hundreds and thousands,
but by tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands. In Calcutta I saw several young men whom
the mission school rescued from starvation in the last great famine of 1901-02 and heard moving
stories of that terrible time. Many readers will recall the aid that America then sent to the
suffering, but in spite of the combined efforts of the British Government and philanthropic
Christendom, 1,236,855 people lost their lives. To get a better grasp upon the significance
of these figures it may be mentioned that if every man, woman, and child in eight American
states and territories at that time (Delaware, Utah, Idaho, New Mexico, Arizona, Montana, Wyoming,
and Nevada) had been {221} swallowed up in a night, the total loss of life would not have been
so great as in this one Indian famine.

Appalling as these facts are, it must nevertheless be remembered that the loss would have been
vastly greater but for the excellent system of famine relief which the British Government has
now worked out. It has built railways all over India, so that no longer will it be possible
for any great area to suffer while another district having abundance is unable to share its
bounty because of absence of transportation. In the second place, the government has wisely
arranged to give work at low wages to famine sufferers--road building, railroad building, or
something of the kind--instead of dispensing a reckless charity which too often pauperizes
those it is intended to help. Before the British occupation India was scourged both by famine
and by frequent, if not almost constant, wars between neighboring states. The fighting it has
stopped entirely, the loss by drought it has greatly reduced; and some authority has stated
(I regret that I have not been able to get the exact figures myself) that for a century before
the British assumed control, war and famine kept the population practically stationary, while
since then the number of inhabitants has practically trebled.

Not unworthy of mention, even in connection with its work in relieving famine sufferers, is
the excellent work the British Government is doing in enabling the farmers to free themselves
from debt. The visitor to India comes to a keener appreciation of Rudyard Kipling's stories
and poems of Indian life because of the accuracy with which they picture conditions; and the
second "Maxim of Hafiz" is only one of many that have gained new meaning for me since my coming:

  "Yes, though a Kafir die, to him is remitted Jehannum,
   If he borrowed in life from a native at 60 per cent. per annum."'

When I first heard of "60 per cent, per annum," and even of 70 per cent, or 80 per cent., as
the ordinary rate of interest paid {222} by the Indian ryot to the merchant or money-lender,
I could not believe it, but further investigation proved the statement true. In the United
Provinces I found that in some cases the ryot has been little better than a serf. The merchant
has "furnished him supplies," adding interest at the rate of one anna on each rupee at the
end of each month--6-1/4 per cent., not a year but a month, and that compounded every 30 days!
In one case that came to my attention, two orphan boys twenty years ago, in arranging the marriage
of their sister, borrowed 100 rupees at 50 per cent, interest. For seventeen years thereafter
they paid 50 rupees each year as interest, until an American missionary took up the account
at 5 per cent, instead of 50, and in two years they had paid it off with only 7 rupees more
than they had formerly paid as annual tribute to the money-lender. In many such cases debts
have been handed down from generation to generation, for the Hindu code of honor will not permit
a son to repudiate the debts of his father; and son, grandson, and great-grandson have, staggered
under burdens they were unable to get rid of.

In this situation the cooperative credit societies organized under government supervision have
proved a godsend to the people, and thousands of ryots through their aid are now getting free
of debt for the first time in their lives, and their families for perhaps the first time in
generations. Each member of a cooperative credit society has some interest in it; the government
will lend at 4 per cent, an amount not greater than the total amount deposited by all the members;
stringent regulations as to loans and their security, deposit of surplus funds, accounting,
etc., are in force, and altogether the plan is working remarkably well. The latest report I
have shows that in a single twelvemonth the total working capital of these societies increased
more than 300 per cent.

The United States seems to be about the only fairly civilized country in which some form of
cooperative credit society, with government aid, has not been worked out.

{223}

Of great help to the small farmer also has been the action of the government in regulating
land-rents in crowded districts. The courts see to it that no landlord raises rents unfairly.
One Brahmin freeholder I met in a small village (he owned 250 acres, worth from $130 to $275
per acre) told me his rents were 32 to 40 rupees (or from $10 to $13) per acre. He grows wheat
and cotton, and appeared to be quite intelligent as well as prosperous, although he wore nothing
save a turban and an abbreviated lower garment not quite stretching from his loins to his knees,
the rest of his body being entirely naked.

That the day laborer in India can have but small hope of buying land at $100 to $300 an acre
(and I think these prices general) is indicated by the fact that when I asked, in the next
village, the wage per month, I was told, "Four or five rupees ($1.28 to $1.60), the laborer
boarding himself."

"And how much is paid per day when a single day's labor is wanted?" I asked.

"Two annas and bread," was the reply. (An anna is 2 cents.)

My informant was the schoolmaster of Khera Kalan village. At his school he told me that the
children of farmers were allowed tuition free; the children of the village people pay 1 to
3 annas a month. But so hard is the struggle to get enough coarse grain to keep soul and body
together (the peasant can seldom afford to eat rice or wheat) that few farm children are free
from work long enough to learn to read and write.

It is heartbreaking to see the thousands and thousands of bright-eyed boys and girls growing
up amid such hopeless surroundings. I shall not soon forget the picture of one little group
whom I found squatted around a missionary's knees in a little mud-walled yard just before I
left Khera Kalan that afternoon. Outside a score of camels were cropping the leaves from the
banyan trees (the only regular communication with the outside world is by camel cart) and the
men of the village {224} were grinding sugarcane on the edge of the far-reaching fields of
green wheat and yellow-blossomed mustard. Not far away was a Hindu temple; not far away, too,
the historic Grand Trunk Road which leads through Khyber Pass into the strange land of Afghanistan.
It is the road, by the way, over which Alexander the Great marched his victorious legions into
India, and over which centuries later Tamerlane came on his terror-spreading invasion. But
this has nothing to do with the little half-naked boys and girls we are now concerned with.
They had gathered around the Padre to recite the Ten Commandments and the Lord's Prayer in
Hindustani. I asked how many had been to school (only one responded), asked something about
their games, told them something about America, and then their instructor inquired (interpreting
all the time for me, of course):

"And what message would you like for the Sahib to give the boys and girls of America for you?"

"Tell them, Salaam," was the quick chorus in reply.

"And that is good enough, I guess," remarked the American who is now giving his life to the
Indian people, "for Salaam means. Peace be to you."

So indeed I pass on the message to the fortunate boys and girls of the United States who read
this article. "Salaam,"--Peace be to you. Little Ones. You will never even know how favored
of Heaven you are in having been born in a land where famine never threatens death to you and
your kindred, where the poor have homes that would seem almost palatial to the average Indian
child; where educational opportunities are within the reach of all; where the religion of the
people is an aid to moral living and high ideals instead of being a hindrance to them; where
no caste system decrees that the poorest children shall not rise above the condition of their
parents; where a wage-scale higher far than six cents a day enables the poorest to have comforts
and cherish ambitions; and where the humblest "boy born in a log cabin" may dream of the Presidency
instead {225} of being an outcast whose very touch the upper orders would account more polluting
than the touch of a beast.

Ah, the little fate-cursed Indian brats, some of them wearing rings in their noses and not
much else, who send the message through me to you--think of them to-night and be glad that
to you the lines have fallen in pleasanter places.

Salaam, indeed, O happy little folk of my own homeland across the seas! Peace be to you!

Jeypore, India.

{226}

XXIII

THE CASTE SYSTEM IN INDIA

Of Hinduism as a religious or ecclesiastical institution we had something to say in another
chapter; of Hinduism as Social Fact bare mention was made. And yet it is in its social aspects,
in its enslavement of all the women and the majority of the men who come within its reach,
that Hinduism presents its most terrible phases. For Hinduism is Caste and Caste is Hinduism.
Upon the innate, Heaven-ordained superiority of the Brahmin and the other twice-born castes,
and upon the consequent inferiority of the lower castes, the whole system of Brahminism rests.

Originally there were but four castes: The Brahmin or priest caste who were supposed to have
sprung from the head of Brahma or God; the Kshatriya or warrior caste who sprang from his arms,
the Vasiya or merchant and farmer class who sprang from his thigh, and the Sudra or servant
and handicraftsmen class who came from his feet. The idea of superiority by birth having once
been accepted as fundamental, however, these primary castes were themselves divided and subdivided
along real or imaginary lines of superiority or inferiority until to-day the official government
statistics show 2378 castes in India. You cannot marry into any one of the other 2377 classes
of Hindus; you cannot eat with any of them, nor can you touch any of them.

Thus Caste is the Curse of India. It is the very antithesis of democracy--blighting, benumbing,
paralyzing to all aspiration and all effort at change or improvement.

{227}

No man may rise to a higher caste than that into which he is born; but he may fall to a lower one.

There is no opportunity for progress; the only way to move is backward. Don't kick against
the pricks therefore. You were born a Brahmin with wealth and power because you won the favor
of the gods in some previous existence; or you were born a Sudra, predestined to a life of
suffering and semi-starvation, because in your previous existence you failed to merit better
treatment from the gods. If you are only a sweeper, be glad that you were not born a pig or
a cobra. Kismet, Fate, has fixed at birth your changeless station in this life; and, more than
this, it has written on your brow the things which must happen to you throughout your whole
existence.

The Brahmin put himself into a position of superiority and then said to all the other classes:
Rebel not at the inequalities of life. They are ordained of the gods. The good that the higher
castes enjoy is the reward of their having conducted themselves properly in previous existences.
Submit yourself to your lot in the hope that with obedience to what the Brahmins tell you,
you may possibly likewise win birth into a higher caste next time. But strike a Brahmin even
so much as with a blade of grass and your soul shall be reborn into twenty and one lives of
impure animals before it assumes human shape again.

Never in human history has the ingenuity of a ruling class devised a cleverer or a crueller
mode of perpetuating its supremacy. Never has there been a religion more depressing, more hopeless,
more deadening to all initiative. "Jo hota so hota,"--"What is happening was to happen"--so
said the wounded men who had gone to the Bombay hospital to have their limbs amputated a few
days before I got there. "It is written on my forehead," a man will often say with stoical
indifference when some calamity overtakes him, in allusion to the belief that on the sixth
night after birth Vidhata writes on every man's forehead the main events of his life-to-be,
and no act {228} of his can change them. "I was impelled of the gods to do the deed," a criminal
will say in the courts. "And I am impelled of the gods to punish you for it," the judge will
sometimes answer. If plague comes, the natives can only be brought by force to observe precautions
against it. "If we are to die, we shall die; why offend the gods by attempting interference
with their plans?" The fatalism of the East as expressed by Omar Khayyam is the daily creed
of India's millions:

  "We are no other than a Moving Row
   Of Magic Shadow-shapes that come and go. . . .

  "But helpless Pieces of the Game He plays
   Upon this Checkerboard of Nights and Days."

It is in this fatalistic conception of life that caste is rooted; but for this belief that
all things are predestined, no people would ever have been so spiritless as to submit to the
tyranny of the caste system. Perhaps it should also be added that the belief in the transmigration
of the soul has also had a not inconsiderable influence. Though you have fared ill in this
life, a million rebirths may be yours ere you finally win absorption into Brahma, and in these
million future lives the gods may deal more prodigally with you. Indeed, the things you most
desire may be yours in your rebirth. "You are interested in India; therefore you may have your
next life as an Indian," an eminent Hindu said to me. But Heaven forbid!

At any rate, with this double layer of nourishing earth--the belief, first, that what you are
now is the result of your actions in previous lives, and, secondly, that there are plenty more
rebirths in which any merit you possess may have its just recompense of reward, the caste system
has flourished like the Psalmist's green bay tree, though its influence has been more like
that of the deadly upas.

If you are a high-caste man you may not only refuse to eat with or touch a low-caste man, your
equal perhaps in {229} intelligence and in morals, but in some cases you may even demand that
the low-caste man shall not pollute you by coming too near you on the road. On page 540 of
the 1901 "Census of India Report" will be found a table showing at what distances the presence
of certain inferior classes become contaminating to a Brahmin! Moreover, the low-caste man,
offensive to men, is taught that he is equally offensive to the gods. He must not worship in
the temples; must not even approach them. Usually it is taken for granted that no Pariah will
take such a liberty, but in some places I have seen signs in English posted on the temple gates
warning tourists who have low-caste servants that these servants cannot enter the sacred buildings.

Not only are these creatures of inferior orders vile in themselves, but the work which they
do has also come to be regarded as degrading. A high-caste man will not be caught doing any
work which is "beneath him." The cook will not sweep; the messenger boy would not pick up a
book from the floor. The liveried Brahmin who takes your card at the American Consulate in
Calcutta once lost his place rather than pick up a slipper; rather than humiliate himself in
such fashion he would walk half a mile to get some other servant for the duty. It is no uncommon
thing to find that your servant will carry a package for you, but will hire another servant
if a small package of his own is to be moved. "I had a boy for thirteen years, the best boy
I ever had, till he died of the plague," a Bombay Englishman said to me, "and he shaved me
regularly all the time. But when I gave him a razor with which to shave himself, I found it
did no good. He would have 'lost caste' if he had done barber's work for anybody but a European!"

"I have a good sweeper servant," a Calcutta minister told me, "but if I should attempt to promote
him beyond his caste and make a house-servant of him, every other servant I have would leave,
including my cook, who has been a Christian twenty years!"

The absurdities into which the caste system runs are well {230} illustrated by some facts which
came to my notice on a visit to a school for the Dom caste conducted by some English people
in Benares. The Doms burn the bodies of the dead at the Ganges ghats, and do other "dirty work."
Incidentally they form the "thief caste" in Benares, and whenever a robbery occurs, the instant
presumption is that some Dom is guilty. For this reason a great number of Doms (they belong
to the Gypsy class and have no houses anywhere) make it a practice to sleep on the ground just
outside the police station nearly all the year round, reporting to the authorities so as to
be able to prove an alibi in case of a robbery. So low are the Doms that to touch anything
belonging to one works defilement; consequently they leave their most valuable possessions
unguarded about their tents or shacks, knowing full well that not even a thief of a higher
caste will touch them.

"We had a servant," a Benares lady said to me, "who lost his place rather than take up one
end of a forty-foot carpet while a Dom had hold of the other end. The new bearer, his successor,
did risk helping move a box with a Dom handling the other side of it, but he was outcasted
for the action, and it cost him 25 rupees to be reinstated. And until reinstated, of course,
he could not visit kinsmen or friends nor could friends or kinsmen have visited him even to
help at a funeral; his priest, his barber, and his washerman would have shunned him. Again,
our bearer, who is himself an outcast in the eyes of the Brahmins, will not take a letter from
the hands of our Dom chiprassi or messenger boy. Instead, the messenger boy drops the letter
on the floor, and the bearer picks it up and thus escapes the pollution that would come from
actual contact with the chiprassi." Moreover, there are social gradations even among the Doms.
One Dom proudly confided to this lady that he was a sort of superior being because the business
of his family was to collect the bones of dead animals, a more respectable work than that in
which some other Doms engaged!

Similarly, Mrs. Lee of the Memorial Mission in Calcutta {231} tells how one day when a dead
cat had to be moved from her yard her sweeper proudly pulled himself up and assured her that,
though the lowest among all servants, he was still too high to touch the body of a dead animal!

My mention of the Doms as the thief caste of Benares makes this a suitable place to say that
I was surprised to find evidences of a well-recognized hereditary robber class in not a few
places in India. The Thugs, or professional murderers, have at last been exterminated, but
the English Government has not yet been able to end the activities of those who regard the
plunder of the public as their immemorial right. In Delhi a friend of mine told me that the
watchmen are known to be of the robber class. "You hire one of them to watch your house at
night, and nothing happens to you. I noticed once or twice that mine was not at his post as
he should have been, but had left his shoes and stick. He assured me that this was protection
enough, as the robbers would see that I had paid the proper blackmail by hiring one of their
number as chowkidar."

In Madura, in southern India, I found the robber element carrying things with a much higher
hand. "There's where they live," Dr. J. P. Jones, the well-known writer on Indian affairs,
said to me as we were coming home one nightfall, "and the people of Madura pay them a tribute
amounting to thousands of rupees a year. They have a god of their own whom they always consult
before making a raid. If he signifies his approval of a robbery, it is made; otherwise, not--though
it is said that the men have a way of tampering with the verdict so as to make the god favor
the enterprise in the great majority of cases."

India's most famous tree, the banyan, grows by dropping down roots from a score or a hundred
limbs; these roots fasten themselves in the earth and later become parent trees for other multiplying
limbs and roots, until the whole earth is covered. In much the same fashion the Indian caste
system has {232} developed. Instead of the four original castes there are now more than five
hundred times that number, and the system now decrees irrevocably before birth not only what
social station the newborn infant shall occupy from the cradle to the grave (or from the time
the conch shell announces the birth of a man-child till the funeral pyre consumes his body,
to use Indian terminology), but also decrees almost as irrevocably what business he may or
may not follow. A little American girl of my acquaintance once announced that she hadn't decided
whether she would be a trained nurse, a chorus-girl, or a missionary; but Hinduism leaves no
one in any such embarrassing quandary. Whether a man is to be a priest or a thief is largely
decided for him before he knows his own name.

"But isn't the system weakening now?" the reader asks, as I have also asked in almost every
quarter of India. The general testimony seems to be that it is weakening, and yet in no very
rapid manner. Eventually, no doubt, it will die, but it will die hard. A few weeks ago, a Parliament
of Religions was held in connection with the Allabahad Exposition, with his Highness the Maharaja
of Darbhanga as the presiding officer. In the course of his "Presidential Address" the Maharaja
delivered a lengthy eulogy of the caste system, resorting in part to so specious an argument
as the following:

  "If education means the drawing forth of the potentialities of a boy
  and fitting him for taking his ordained place as a member of society,
  then the caste system has hitherto done this work in a way which no
  other plan yet contrived has ever done. The mere teaching of a youth
  a smattering of the three R's and nothing else in a primary school
  is little else than a mere mockery. Under the caste system the boys
  are initiated and educated almost from infancy into the family
  industry, trade, profession, or handicraft, and become adepts in
  their various lines of life almost before they know it. This unique
  system of education is one of the blessings of our caste
  arrangement. We know that a horse commands a high price in the
  market if it has a long pedigree behind it. It is not unreasonable
  to presume that a carpenter whose forefathers have followed the same
  trade for centuries will be a better carpenter than one who is new
  to the trade--all other advantages being equal."

{233}

In the phrase, "his ordained place as a member of society," we have the keynote of the philosophy
upon which the whole caste system rests. It suits the Maharaja of Darbhanga to have the people
believe that his sons were "ordained" of Heaven to be rulers, even if "not fit to stop a gully
with," and the Sudra's sons "ordained" to be servants, no matter what their qualities of mind
and soul. But the caste system is rotting down in other places and some time or other this
"ordained" theory will also give way and the whole vast fabric will totter to the ruin it has
long and richly merited.

The introduction of railways has proved one of the great enemies of caste. Men of different
rank who formerly would not have rubbed elbows under any considerations sit side by side in
the railway cars--and they prefer to do it rather than travel a week by bullock-cart to reach
a place which is but a few hours by train. Consequently the priests have had to wink at "breaking
caste" in this way, just as they had to get around the use of waterworks in Calcutta. According
to the strict letter of the law a Hindu may not drink water which has been handled by a man
of lower caste (in Muttra I have seen Brahmins hired to give water to passersby), but the priests
decided that the payment of water-rates might be regarded as atonement for the possible defilement,
and consequently Hindus now have the advantages of the city water supply.

Foreign travel has also jarred the caste system rather severely. The Hindu statutes strictly
forbid a man from leaving the boundaries of India, but the folk have progressed from technical
evasion of the law to open violation of its provisions. In Jeypore I saw the half-acre of trunks
and chests which the Maharaja of that province used for transporting his goods and chattels
when he went to attend the coronation of the King of England. The Maharaja is a Hindu of the
Hindus, claims descent from one of the high and mighty gods, and when he was named to go to
London, straightway declared that the {234} caste law against leaving India stood hopelessly
in the way. Finally, however, he was convinced that by taking all his household with him, his
servants, his priests, material for setting up a Hindu temple, a six-months' supply of Ganges
water, etc., he might take enough of India with him to make the trip in safety, and he went.
Now many are going without any such precautions, and a moderate fee paid to the priests usually
enables them to resume caste relations upon their return.

Sometimes, however, the penalties are heavier. A Hindu merchant of Amritsar, who grew very
friendly with a Delhi friend of mine on a voyage from Europe, said just before reaching Bombay:
"Well, I shall have to pay for all this when I get home, and I shall be lucky if I get off
without making a pilgrimage to all the twelve sacred places of our religion. And in any case
I shall never let my wife know that I have broken caste by eating with foreigners." My impression
is, however, that only in a very few cases now is the crime of foreign travel punished so severely.
In Madras I met one of the most eminent Hindu leaders, Mr. Krishnaswami Iyer. "Caste has kept
me from going abroad until now," he told me, "but I have made up my mind to let it interfere
no longer. Just as soon as business permits, I shall go to Europe and possibly to America."

Christianity is another mightily effective foe of Caste. As in the olden days, it exalts the
lowly and humbles the proud. In Muttra I found a converted high-caste Brahmin acting as sexton
of a Christian church whose members are sweepers--outcast folk whom as a Hindu he would have
scorned to touch. On the other hand, the acceptance of Christianity frees a man from the restrictions
imposed upon a low caste, even though it does not give him the privileges of a higher caste
and thus often wins for the Christianized Hindu higher regard from all classes. Thus there
was in Moradabadad some years ago the son of a poor sweeper who became a Christian, and was
a youth of such fine promise that a way was {235} found for him to attend Oxford University.
Returning, he became a teacher in Moradabadad Mission School and won such golden opinions from
his townspeople that when he died the whole city--Hindus, Mohammedans and Christians alike--stopped
for his funeral.

In its present elaborate form the caste system is undoubtedly doomed. It is too purely artificial
to endure after the people acquire even a modicum of education. Perhaps it was planned originally
as a means of preserving the racial integrity and political superiority of the Aryan invaders,
but for unnumbered centuries it has been simply a gigantic engine of oppression and social
injustice. At the present time no blood or social difference separates the great majority of
castes from the others: each race is divided into hundreds of castes; and so high an authority
as Mr. Krishnaswami Iyer assured me that even in the beginning all the castes save the Sudras
were of the same race and blood.

If the purpose of caste, however, be in part to prevent the intermarriage of radically different
races, this may be accomplished, as it is accomplished in our own Southern States, without
restricting the right of the individual to engage in any line of work for which he is fitted
or to go as high in that work as his ability warrants. Booker Washington, born in the South's
lowest ranks, becomes a world-figure; had he been born in India's lowest caste, he would have
remained a burner of dead bodies. To compare the South's effort to preserve race integrity
with India's Juggernaut of caste is absurd.

Bombay, India.

{236}

XXIV

THE PLIGHT OF THE HINDU WOMAN

In India marriage is as inevitable as death, as Herbert Compton remarks. There are no bachelors
or old maids. Children in their cradles are not infrequently given in marriage by their parents;
they are sometimes promised in marriage (contingent upon sex) before they are born.

"You are married, of course?" the zenana women will ask when an American Bible-woman calls
on them; and, if the answer is in the negative, "Why not? Couldn't they get anybody to have you?"

"Every girl at fourteen must be either a wife or a widow," is an Indian saying almost unexceptionally
true. And the lot of woman is hard if she be a wife; it is immeasurably harder if she be a
widow. Hinduism enslaves a majority of the men within its reach; of the women within its reach
it enslaves all.

I think it was George William Curtis who said, "The test of a
civilization is its estimate of woman"; and if we are to accept this
standard, Hindu civilization must take a place very near the bottom.
In the great temple at Madura are statues of "The Jealous Husband" who
always carried his wife with him on his shoulder wherever he went; and
the attitude of the man in the case is the attitude of Hinduism as a
system. It bases its whole code of social laws upon the idea that
woman is not to be trusted. Their great teacher, Manu, in his "Dharma
Sastra" sums up his opinion of woman in two phrases: "It is the nature
of woman in this world to cause men to sin. A female is able to draw
from the right path, not a fool {237} only, but even a sage." A woman is not to be
  relied on."

  "Confidence is not to be placed in a woman. If one trust a woman,
  without doubt he must wander about the streets as a beggar."

In accordance with these ideas the life of the Hindu woman has been divided into "the three
subjections." In childhood she must be subject to her father; in marriage to her husband; in
widowhood to her sons or--most miserable of all!--lacking a son, to her husband's kinsmen.
Her husband is supposed to stand to her almost in the relation of a god. "No sacrifice is allowed
to women apart from their husbands," says Manu, "no religious rite, no fasting. In so far only
as a wife honors her husband so far is she exalted in Heaven." And a recent Hindu writer says,
"To obey the husband is to obey the Vedas (the Hindu scriptures). To worship the husband is
to worship the gods."

Hinduism and the caste system, hard on the men, are doubly hard on the women. The women may
no more rise above their caste than the male members of the family; and they are predestined
to take up life's most serious duties before their fleeting childhood has spent itself. No
wonder they look old before they are thirty!

If any one doubts the prevalence of child-marriage in India, a trip through the country will
very quickly dispel his doubts. A law enacted by the British Government a few years ago decrees
that while the marriage ceremonies may be performed at any age, the girl shall not go to her
husband as his wife until she is twelve years old; but it is doubtful if even this mild measure
is strictly enforced. In Delhi I attended an elaborate {238} and costly Hindu wedding-feast
and was told that the bride was "eleven or twelve" and would go to her husband's home (he lives
with his father, of course) the following week. My travelling servant told me that he was married
when he was sixteen and his wife ten, though she remained two years longer with her parents
before coming to him. The first American lady I met in India was telling of a wedding she had
recently attended, the bride being a girl of eleven and the groom a year or two older. In Secunderabad
a friend of mine found a week-old Brahmin girl baby who had been given in marriage, and in
the house where he visited was a ten-year-old girl who had been married two years before to
a man of thirty.

In prescribing a marriageable age for high-caste Hindu girls Manu named eight as a minimum
age and twelve as the maximum. The father who delays finding a husband for his daughter until
after she is twelve is regarded as having committed a crime--though it must always be remembered
that girls and boys in India mature a year or two younger than boys and girls in the United States.

One reason for arranging early marriages is that the cost increases with the age of the girl,
and the wedding ceremonies in all cases are expensive enough. Weddings in India furnish about
as much excitement as circuses at home. My first introduction to a Hindu wedding was in Agra
one Sunday afternoon--though Sunday in the Orient, of course, is the same as any other day--and
the shops were in full blast (if such a strenuous term may be used concerning the serene and
listless Hindu merchant) and the craftsmen and potters were as busy as they ever are. From
afar the sound of drums smote my ear, and as the deafening hullabaloo came nearer its volume
and violence increased until it would have sufficed to bring down the walls of Jericho in half
the time Joshua took for the job. Just behind the drummers came two gorgeously clad small boys
astride an ass begarlanded with flowers; and when the musicians stopped for a minute to tighten
their drums so as {239} to make confusion worse confounded, I made inquiry as to the meaning
of the procession. Then it developed that the eight-year-old small boy in front, dressed in
red and yellow silk and gauze and who ought to have been at home studying the Second Reader,
was on his way to be married, and the little chap riding behind him was the brother of the
bride. It was very hard to realize that such tots were not merely "playing wedding" instead
of being principal participants in a serious ceremony!

The wedding-feast which I attended in Delhi was arranged for a couple who came from the higher
ranks of Hindu society, and though no one could have asked for a more gracious welcome than
my American friend and I received, I very much doubt if any one of the high-caste folk about
us would have condescended to eat at the same table with us even to end a three-days' hunger.
The groom, Harri Ram by name, was a nice-looking boy of fourteen, clad in a velvet suit and
apparently pleased with the show of which he was It. There had already been a three or four
days' wedding ceremony at the bride's house, we were told, and this was the fifth and last
day of the ceremonies and feasts arranged by the groom's father. One thousand people had been
invited and, judging from the richness of the food with which we were served, I should think
that my friend's estimate of the total cost, 5000 rupees, or $1633, was none too high.

Not only are the wedding ceremonies expensive, but a poor father, or a father with several
daughters to find husbands for, must often strain his credit to the utmost in providing dowries.
It is said that among the humbler classes a father will sometimes mortgage his wages for life
to secure money for this purpose. Then, too, the marriage-broker or middleman who has gone
to the groom's father with the story that the bride is "as beautiful as the full moon, as graceful
as a young elephant, and with a voice as sweet as a cuckoo's"--he must also be paid for his
indispensable services.

{240}

Not to be envied is the little damsel of twelve who leaves her childhood home and goes out
as the bride of a boy or man--whose face she may never have seen but once or twice--to take
up the hard life of a Hindu wife in the home of her father-in-law and mother-in-law. Yet from
her infancy she has been bred in an atmosphere full of suggestion of the inferiority of womankind,
and to her it is probably not so galling as we fancy that she is never accounted worthy of
eating at the same table with her husband, but must be content with what he leaves. Even Christianity
can move but slowly in bringing the people to a higher appreciation of the dignity of womanhood.
"Some of my girls are engaged to be married," Mrs. Lee, of the Lee Memorial Home in Calcutta,
said to me, "and when their fiances come to call, after the Christian fashion, the girls must
remain standing as inferiors while the boys are seated."

Once married, the Hindu wife has two things to dread: either that her husband may die or that
he may supplant her by a second wife. If she lives seven years as a wife without giving birth
to a son, the husband is authorized by law and religion to take a second spouse; and in nearly
all such cases the lot of the first wife is a hard one. Rev. W. J. Wilkins says that a servant
in his employ married a second wife and insisted that the first should not only support herself
but contribute the bulk of her wages for the support of wife No. 2. The older wife is tantalized
by the thought that she herself was selected by the parents of her husband, while the new wife
is probably his own choice; and another cause of jealousy is found in the new wife's youth.
For no matter how old the man himself may be--forty, fifty or sixty--his bride is always a
girl of twelve or thereabouts--and for the very simple reason that practically no girls remain
single longer, and widows are never allowed to remarry. A story was told me in Bombay of a
Hindu in his fifties who was seeking a new wife and sent an agent to his native village and
caste with power to negotiate.

{241}

  The most beautiful building on earth with a story no less beautiful
  than the building itself.

{242}

  Ordinarily the Indian water carrier, or bhisti, is attired more
  nearly after the manner described in Kipling's poem:

    "The uniform 'e wore
    Was nothing much before
    An' rather less than 'arf o' that be'ind.
    For a twisty piece o' rag and a goatskin leather bag
    Was all the field equipment 'e could find."

{243}

"My friends have persuaded me that I ought not to marry a very young girl," he said to the
agent, "get an older one therefore--oh, it doesn't matter if she is twenty-four."

The agent left and two days thereafter the Hindu received this message: "Can't find one of
twenty-four. How about two of twelve each?"

The sorrows of a superseded wife, however, are as nothing to the troubles of a Hindu widow.
The teaching of Brahminism is that she is responsible through some evil committed either in
this existence or a previous one, for the death of her husband, and the cruelest indignities
of the Hindu social system are reserved for the bereaved and unfortunate woman. If a man or
boy die, no matter if his wife is yet a prattling girl in her mother's home, she can never
remarry, but is doomed to live forever as a despised slave in the home of his father and mother.
Her jewels are torn from her; her head is shaved; and she is forced to wear clothing in keeping
with the humiliation the gods are supposed to have justly inflicted upon her. In a school I
visited in Calcutta I was told that there were two little widows, one five years old and one six.

Formerly and up to the time that the British Government stopped the practice less than a century
ago, it was regarded as the widow's duty to burn herself alive on her husband's funeral pyre.
"It is proper for a woman after her husband's death," said the old Code of Hindu Laws, "to
burn herself in the fire with his corpse. Every woman who thus burns herself shall remain in
Paradise with her husband 35,000,000 years by destiny. If she cannot burn, she must in that
case preserve an inviolable chastity." This rite of self-immolation was known as suttee, and
it is said that in Bengal alone a century ago the suttees numbered one hundred a month. It
was an old custom to set up a stone with carved figures of a man and a woman to mark the spot
where a widow had performed suttee, and travellers to-day still find these gruesome and barbaric
memorials here and there along the Indian roadsides. {244} Moreover, the present general treatment
of widows in India is so heartbreakingly cruel that many have been known to declare that they
would prefer the suttee.

And yet we may be sure that the picture is not wholly dark; that a kind providence mingles
some sunshine with the shadows which blacken the skies of Indian womanhood. Men are often better
than their customs and sometimes better than their religions. The high-caste Hindu and Mohammedan
women who are supposed to keep their faces veiled and (in the case of the Hindus at least)
must not even look out of the windows of their zenanas, manage to get a little more freedom
than the strict letter of the law allows; and the Hindu father and husband, doing good by stealth,
sometimes pours out in secret an affection for his womenfolk which it would not be seemly for
the world to know about. Standing with a friend of mine on a high flat housetop in Calcutta
one day, I saw a Hindu father on the next-door housetop proudly and lovingly walking and talking
with his daughter who was just budding into maidenhood. "His affection is quite unmistakable,"
my friend said to me, "and yet if in public, he would never give any sign of it."

Nor can the lot of the Indian woman ever be regarded as hopeless while the country holds the
peerless Taj Mahal, the most beautiful monument ever erected in memory of a woman's love. True,
Shah Jehan, the monarch who built it, was not a Hindu: he was a Mohammedan. And yet Mohammedanism,
although its customs are less brutal, places woman in almost the same low position as Hinduism.
In considering the status of woman in India, therefore, scorned alike by both the great religions
of the country, it is gratifying to be able to make an end by referring to this loveliest of
all memorial structures. Of all that I saw in India, excepting only the magnificent view of
the Himalayas from Tiger Hill, I should least like to forget the view of the Taj Mahal in the
full glory of the Indian full moon.

The inscription in Persian characters over the archway, "Only the Pure in Heart May Enter the
Garden of God," {245} is enough to assure one that Arjmand Banu, "The Exalted One of the Palace,"
whose dust it was built to shelter, was a queen as beautiful in character as she was in form
and feature. We know but little about her. There are pictures which are supposed to carry some
suggestion of her charm; there are records to show that it was in 1615 that she became the
bride of the prince who later began to rule as "His Imperial Highness, the second Alexander
(Lord of the two Horns) King Shah Jehan," and we may see in Agra the rooms in the palace where
she dwelt for a time in the Arabian Nights-like splendor characteristic of Oriental courts,

"Mumtaz-i-Mahal," they called her--"Pride of the Palace." And seven times Arjmand Banu walked
the ancient way of motherhood--that way along which woman finds the testing of her soul, the
mystic reach and infinite meaning of her existence, as man must find his in some bitter conflict
that forever frees him from the bonds of selfishness. Seven times she walked the mother's ancient
way down to the gates of Death and brought back a new life with her, but the eighth time she
did not return. And grief-stricken Shah Jehan, carrying in his heart a sorrow which not all
his pomp nor power could heal, declared that she should have the most beautiful tomb that the
mind of man could plan. So the Taj was built--"in memory of a deathless love," and in a garden
which is always sweet with the odor of flowers, at the end of an avenue of fountains and stately
cypress trees, and guarded by four graceful, heaven-pointing minarets, "like four tall court-ladies
tending their princess," there stands this dream in marble, "the most exquisite building on earth."

With the memory of its beautiful dome and sculptured detail in our thoughts, let us take leave
of our subject; trusting that the Taj itself, like a morning star glittering from a single
rift in a darkened sky, may form the prophecy of a fairer dawn for the womanhood of the country
in which it is so incongruously placed.

Madras, India.

{246}

XXV

MORE LEAVES FROM AN INDIA NOTE-BOOK

There are many show places and "points of interest" in India that have a hundred times more
attention in the guide books, but there is a simple tomb in Lucknow--it cost no more than many
a plain farmer's tombstone in our country burying-places--which impressed me more than anything
else I saw excepting only the Himalayas, the Taj Mahal and the view of Benares from the river.

It is the tomb of the heroic Sir Henry Lawrence, who died so glorious a death in the great
mutiny of 1857. No commander in all India has planned more wisely for the defence of the men
and women under his care; and yet the siege had only begun when he was mortally wounded. He
called his successor and his associates to him, and at last, having omitted no detail of counsel
or information that might enable them to carry out his far-seeing plans, he roused himself
to dictate his own immortal epitaph:

            Here Lies

          HENRY LAWRENCE

      Who Tried to Do His Duty

  May the Lord Have Mercy on his Soul.

And so to-day these lines, "in their simplicity sublime," mark his last resting place; and
one feels somehow that not even the great Akbar in Secundra or Napoleon in Paris has a worthier
monument.

{247}

There are many places in India to which I should like to give a paragraph. I should like to
write much of Delhi and its palaces in which the Great Moguls once lived in a splendor worthy
of the monarchs in the Arabian Nights--no wonder the stately Diwan-i-Khas, or Hall of Public
Audience, bears the famous inscription in Persian:

  "If there be Paradise on earth.
   It is this, oh, it is this, oh, it is this!"

In the ruins of seven dead and deserted Delhis round about the present city and the monuments
and memorials which commemorate "the old far-off unhappy things" of conquered dynasties and
romantic epochs, there is also material for many a volume.

Then there is Cawnpore with its tragic and sickening memories of the English women and children
(with the handful of men) who were butchered in cold blood by the treacherous Nana Dhundu Pant;
and I was greatly interested in meeting in Muttra one of the few living men, a Christianized
Brahmin, who as a small boy witnessed that terrible massacre which for cruelty and heartlessness
is almost without a parallel in modern history.

In Agra is the Pearl Mosque, which is itself an architectural triumph splendid enough to make
the city famous if the Taj had not already made it so; the Great Temple in Madura is one of
the most impressive of the strictly Hindu structures in India; in Madras I found a curious
reminder of early missionary activity in the shape of a cathedral which is supposed to shelter
the remains of the Apostle Thomas; and the ruins of the once proud and imperial but now utterly
deserted cities of Amber and Fatehpuhr-Sikri have a strange and melancholy interest. But all
these have been often enough described, and there are things of greater pith and moment in
present-day India to which we can better give attention.

{248}

One thing concerning India, which should perhaps have been said in the beginning, but which
has not had attention until now, is the fact that it is no more a homogeneous country than
Europe is--has perhaps, indeed, a greater variety of languages, peoples, and racial and traditional
differences than the European continent. I have already called attention to the fact that there
are 2378 castes. There are also 40 distinct nationalities or races and 180 languages. For an
utterly alien race to govern peacefully such a heterogeneous conglomeration of peoples, representing
all told nearly one fifth of the population of the whole earth, is naturally one of the most
difficult administrative feats in history, and Mr. Roosevelt probably did not give the English
too high praise when he declared: "In India we encounter the most colossal example history
affords of the successful administration by men of European blood of a thickly populated region
in another continent. It is the greatest feat of the kind that has been performed since the
break-up of the Roman Empire. Indeed, it is a greater feat than was performed under the Roman
Empire."

I was interested to find that the American-born residents of India give, if anything, even
higher praise to British rule than the British themselves. "I regard the English official in
India," one distinguished American in southern India went so far as to say to me, "as the very
highest type of administrative official in the world. More than this, 90 per cent. of the common
people would prefer to trust the justice of the British to that of the Brahmins." In Delhi
an American missionary expressed the opinion that the American Government, if in control of
India, would not be half so lenient with the breeders of sedition and anarchy as is the British
Government.

It should be said, however, that there are now fewer of these malcontents, and these few are
less influential than at any time for some years past. In Madras I was very glad to get an
interview with Mr. Krishnaswami Iyer, one of the most distinguished of the Hindu leaders.

{249}

{250}

  The writer was shown through the historic fortress by William
  Ireland, one of the few living survivors of the great siege. In
  Muttra the writer also met Isa Doss, a Hindu (now a Christian
  preacher) who saw the massacre of the English women and children by
  the treacherous Nana Dhundu Pant.

{251}

"Lord Morley's reforms," he declared, "have been so extensive and have satisfied such a large
proportion of our people that the extremists no longer have any considerable following. We
no longer feel that it is England's intention to keep us in the condition of hopeless helots.
The highest organization for the government of the country is the British Secretary of State
and his council; Lord Morley placed two Indians there. In India the supreme governmental organization
is the Governor-General and his council; he put an Indian there. In three large provinces--Bombay,
Madras, and Bengal--Indians have been added to the executive councils."

"For the first time, too, our people are really an influential factor in the provincial and
imperial legislative councils. We have had representation in these councils, it is true, for
fifty years; but it was not until 1892 that representation became considerable, and even then
the right of the people to name members was not recognized. So-called constituencies were given
authority to make nominations, but the government retained the right to reject or confirm these
at pleasure."

"Now, however, through Lord Morley's and Lord Minto's reforms, the number of Indians on these
councils has been more than doubled--in the case of the Imperial Council actually trebled--and
the absolute right given the people to elect a large proportion, averaging about 40 per cent.
of the total number, without reference to the wishes of the government. In fact, with two fifths
of all the members chosen by the people and a considerable number of other members chosen from
municipal boards, chambers of commerce, universities, etc., we now see the spectacle of Provincial
Councils with non-official members in the majority. In Bombay the non-official element is two
thirds of the whole; and in Madras also the non-official members could defeat the government
if they chose to combine and do so. But of course the greater willingness of the government
to cooperate with the people has brought {252} about a greater willingness on the part of the
people to cooperate with the government."

"The appointment of Indians to the highest offices charged with the responsibility of government;
the increased representation given the people on the legislative and executive councils; the
recognition of the right of the people to elect instead of merely to nominate members; and
the surrender of majority-control to the non-official element--all these are very substantial
gains, but the spirit back of them is worth more than the reforms themselves. While there is
a feeling in some quarters that the government has not gone far enough, the large majority
of my educated countrymen regard the advance as sufficient for the present and look forward
with hope to a further expansion of our powers and privileges."

If I may judge by what I gathered from conversation with Hindus, Mohammedans, Parsees, I should
say that no one has given a more accurate and clear-cut statement of the feelings of the Indian
people than has Mr. Krishnaswami Iyer in these few terse sentences.

"The wealth of the Indies" has been a favorite phrase with romantic writers from time immemorial;
and a book now before me speaks in the most matter-of-course way of "the prosperous and peaceful
empire." Yet the Indian is really one of the poorest men on earth. The wealth with which the
Moguls and kings of former ages dazzled the world was wrung from the hard hands of peasants
who were governed upon the theory that what the king wanted was his, and what he left was theirs.
Even the splendid palaces and magnificent monuments, such as the Taj Mahal, were built largely
by forced, unpaid labor. In some cases it is said that the monarch did not even deign to furnish
food for the men whom he called away from the support of their families.

An ignorant people is always a poor people, and we have already seen that only 10 per cent.
of the men in India can read or write, and of these 10 per cent. the majority are Brahmins.
{253} Then, again, the people use only the crudest tools and machinery; and a third factor
in keeping them poor is the system of early marriage. When it is a common thing for a boy of
fifteen or sixteen to be the father of a growing family, it is easy to see that not much can
be laid up for rainy days.

Owing to the absence of diversified industries, the crudeness of the tools, the ignorance of
the men behind the tools, and the over-crowded population of folk hard-pressed by poverty,
the wages are what an American would call shamefully low. An Englishman who had lived in an
interior jungle-village, five days by bullock-cart from a railway, told me that twenty years
ago laborers were paid 2 rupees (64 cents) a month, boarding themselves, or 4 rupees ($1.28)
a year and grain. The wages have now advanced, however, to 5 rupees ($1.60) a month where the
man boards himself; and for day labor the wages are now five annas (10 cents) instead of two
annas (4 cents) twenty years ago.

In Madura a well-educated Hindu with whom I was talking rang the familiar changes on the "increasing
cost of living," and pointed out that in four or five years the cost of unskilled labor has
increased from eight to twelve cents. "And in some towns," he declared, looking at the same
time as if he feared I should not believe his story, "they are demanding as much as 8 annas
(16 cents) a day!" In Bombay I was told that coolies average 16 to 20 cents a day; spinners
in jute factories, $1.16 a week, weavers, $1.82. In a great cotton factory I visited in Madras,
employing about 4000 natives (all males) the average wages for eleven and a half hours' work
is $3.84 to $4.85 a month. In Ahmedabad, another cotton manufacturing centre, about the same
scale is in force. Miners get 16 to 28 cents a day. Servants, $3.20 to $3.84 a month.

The women in Calcutta (some of them with their babies tied out to stakes while they worked)
whom I saw carrying brick and mortar on their heads to the tops of three and four story buildings,
get 3 to 4 annas a day--6 to 8 cents. In {254} Darjeeling the bowed and toil-cursed women laden
like donkeys, whom I found bringing stone on their backs from quarries two or three miles away
managed to make 12 to 16 cents a day for their bitter toil up steep hills and down, for eight
long hours. Women who carried lighter loads of mud, making 50 trips averaging 20 miles of travel,
earned only 8 cents, as did also the women with babies strapped on their backs, who nevertheless
toiled as steadily as the others.

"As for the men I pay these strong, brawny Bhutia fellows 8 annas (16 cents) a day," the contractor
told me, "but those Nepalese who are not so strong get only 5 annas for shovelling earth."

Director of Agriculture Couchman of the Madras Presidency gave me the following as the usual
scale of wages for farm work: men 6 to 8 cents; women 4 to 6; children 3 to 5, the laborers
boarding themselves.

With this Mr. Couchman, whom I have just mentioned, I had a very interesting interview in Madras
which should shed some light on Indian agriculture.

"In Madras Presidency," he told me, "we cultivate 10,000,000 acres of rice, which is the favorite
food of the people. As it is expensive compared with some cheaper foods, however, the people
put 4,500,000 acres to a sort of sorghum--not the sorghum cultivated for syrup or sugar but
for the seed to be used as a grain food--and also grow 4,000,000 acres of millet the seed of
which are used as a grain food."

"Then we grow 2,000,000 acres in cotton, but cotton in India is grown only on black soils.
We want some for red soils, and we are also seeking to increase the yield and the length of
staple in the indigenous varieties. In both these points the Indian cotton now compares very
badly with the American. Our average yield is only about 50 to 100 pounds lint per acre, and
the staple is only three quarters to five eights of an inch in length, and not suitable for
spinning over 20s in warp."

{255}

{256}

  How the author and his friends made the trip from Jeypore to Amber

{257}

"Of course, with our dense population, land is high and our system of farming expensive. Good
irrigated wet land, used chiefly for rice, is worth from $166 to $500 per acre, renting for
$20 to $25; dry land sells for $17 to $133 per acre and rents for from $3 to $5. It is commonly
said that a man and his family should make a living on two acres, and the usual one-man farm
consists of 5 to 10 acres of wet land or 30 to 50 of dry. The wet land farmers are generally
renters, the others owners. Of course, you have noticed that no horses are used on the farms,
nothing but bullocks; nor do I think that horses will be used for a long time to come. We are
making some progress in introducing better methods of farming. Little, of course, can be done
with bulletins where such a small percentage of the people can read, but demonstration farms
have proved quite successful, and the government is much pleased with the results obtained
from employing progressive native farmers to instruct their neighbors."

The advancing price of cotton has proved a matter of hardly less interest to India than to
America, and for several years the crop has been steadily increasing. The 1910-11 crop (the
picking ended in May) was almost 4,500,000 bales of 400 pounds each. The necessity for growing
food crops, however, is so imperative that the cotton acreage cannot be greatly increased--at
least not soon. During our Civil War, it will be remembered, India did her uttermost; and Bombay
laid the foundations of her greatness in the high prices then paid for the fleecy staple. Hers
is still a great cotton market and down one of her main streets from morning to night one sees
an almost continuous line of cotton carts, drawn by bullocks and driven by men almost as black
as our negroes in the South. I was very much interested in seeing how much better the lint
is baled than in America. In the first place the bagging is better--less ragged than that we
commonly use--and in the next place it is held in place by almost twice as many encircling
bands or ties as our bales.

{258}

All in all, I regret to say good-by to India. Its people are poor; its industries primitive;
its religion atrocious; its climate generally oppressive, and yet, after all, there is something
fascinating about the country. For one thing, there is a large infusion of Aryan blood among
the people, and after one has spent several months among the featureless faces of the Chinese
and Japanese, these Aryan-type faces are strangely attractive. The speech of the people, too,
is picturesque beyond that of almost any other folk, as readers of Kipling have come to know.
It is very common for a beggar to call out, "Oh, Protector of the Poor, you are my father and
mother, help me, help me."

"I salute you," said our old guide at the Kutab Minar, speaking in his native Hindustani, which
my friend interpreted for me. "I know that you are the kings of the realm, but I have eaten
your salt before, and I am willing to eat it again."

At the end, of course, he wished a tip. "But ask him why I should give him anything," I said
to my friend.

Replying, he mentioned first the number of his children, the blindness of his wife, and then
dropped into the picturesque native plea: "Besides, you are my father and mother, the king
of the realm, and if I may not look to you, to whom shall I look?"

"Well, so much lying ought to be worth four annas," I said, and left him happier with the coin.

There is one thing, of course, that would never do: it would never do to write about India
without saying something about lions, tigers, and snakes. Last of all, therefore, let me come
to this topic.

I didn't see any tigers, let me say frankly, except those in cages--though there was one in
Calcutta which had slain men and women before they caught him, and whose titanic fury as he
lunged against his cage-bars, gnashing at the men before him, I shall never forget. A jackal
howled at my room-door in Jeypore one night; between Jeypore and Bombay monkeys {259} were
as thick as rabbits were in the old county where I was reared; in Delhi only lack of time prevented
me from getting interested in a leopard hunt not many miles away; en route to Darjeeling I
saw a wild elephant staked out in the woods near where he had evidently been caught; and near
Khera Kalan I saw wild deer leaping with their matchless grace across the level plains.

"In my district," one missionary told me, "five or six people a month are killed by tigers
and panthers and even more by snakes. One panther carried off a man from my kitchen. We found
his body half-eaten in the jungle. It is customary when a body is found in this condition for
hunters to gather around it and await the return of the tiger or panther. He will come back
when hungry, and there is no other way so sure for getting a man-eater."

As for snakes, I may mention that when I spent the night with a friend in Madura I was shown
a place near the house where a deadly cobra had been seen (his bite kills in twenty minutes),
while upon retiring I was given the comforting assurance that it was not safe to put my foot
on the floor at night without having a light in the room!

As I rode out with Dr. J. P. Jones, of Pasamaila, he pointed to a grassy mound near the roadside
and said.

"See that grave over there? There's rather an interesting story connected with it which I'll
tell you. One day about four years ago three snake-charmers came to my house, and as I had
an American friend and his son with me, I decided for the boy's sake to have them try their
art. Only two of the men had flutes, but one went into my garden and one took up his post on
another side of the house, and began to play. It wasn't long before one called out, 'Cobra!'
and sure enough there was the snake, which he captured; but on coming back he declared that
he had been bitten. In fact, he showed a bruise, but I knew that snake-charmers counterfeit
these bites, so I would not believe him. Then the other charmer also cried {260} 'Cobra!' and
captured another snake. They showed me the fangs of each serpent, and I gave them four annas.
1 also offered them four annas more if they would kill the serpents; but of course they would
not. 'Man kill cobra, cobra kill man,' is one of their sayings. And so they left, but the man
who captured the first snake hadn't gone twenty steps before he fell in convulsions and died.
He had really been bitten, and that is his grave which you see there."

Madura, India.

{261}

XXVI

WHAT THE ORIENT MAY TEACH US

But, after all, what may the Orient teach us? The inquiry is a pertinent one. Perhaps it is
all the more pertinent because, while acknowledging that the old East may learn much from the
young West, we are ordinarily little inclined to look to the Orient for instruction for ourselves.
In fact, we are not inclined to look anywhere.

That the germ and promise of all the new Japan was in the oath taken by the young Mikado in
1868, "to seek out knowledge in all the world," we are ready to admit, and we are also ready
to admit the truth of what Dr. Timothy Richard said to me in Peking last November. "This revolutionary
progress in China has come about," he remarked, "because for twenty years China has been measuring
herself with other countries. It is a comparative view of the world that is remaking the empire."

In our own case unfortunately, certain natural conditions as well, perhaps, as the excessive
"Ego in our Cosmos," conspire to keep us from this corrective "comparative view of the world."
We are not hemmed about by rival world-powers, whose activities we are compelled to study,
as is the case with almost every European nation. Barring the Philippines (and their uncertain
value) we have no far-flung battle line to lure our vision beyond borders. And thus far our
growing home markets have been so remunerative that not even commerce has induced as to look
outward, with the incidental results of {262} bringing us to realize our defects and remedy
them, our strong points and emphasize them.

For these reasons, I made my trip through the Orient with an increased desire to bring home
the lessons its long experience should teach us. And now that I come to summarize these lessons
I find a single note running through all--from beginning to end. And this keynote may be given
in a single word. Conservation: the conservation not only of our natural resources, but of
racial strength and power, of industrial productiveness, of commercial opportunities, and of
finer things of the spirit.

Taking up first the matter of natural resources, I may mention that hardly anything that I
saw on my entire trip burned itself more deeply into my memory than the heavy penalty that
the Celestial Empire is now paying for the neglect of her forests in former years.

In the country north of Peking I found river valley after river valley once rich and productive
but now become an abomination of desolation--covered with countless tons of sand and stone
brought down from the treeless mountainsides. So long as these slopes were forest-clad, the
decaying leaves and humus gave a sponge-like character to the soil upon them, and it gave out
the water gradually to the streams below. Now, however, the peaks are in most cases only enormous
rock-piles, the erosion having laid waste the country roundabout; or else they are mixtures
of rock and earth rent by gorges through which furious torrents rush down immediately after
each rainfall, submerging once fruitful plains with rock and infertile gully-dirt. Where the
thrifty, pig-tailed Chinese peasant once cultivated broad and level fields in such river valleys,
he is now able to rescue only a few half-hearted patches by piling the rock in heaps and saving
a few intervening arable remnants from the general soil-wreck.

Especially memorable was the ruin--if one may call it such--of a once deep river, its bed now
almost filled with {263} sand and rock, that I crossed on my little Chinese donkey not far
from the Nankou Pass and the Great Wall. Even the splendid arches of a bridge, built to span
its ancient flood, were almost submerged in sand. Instead of the constant stream of water that
once gladdened the lowlands, there is in each rainy season a mad torrent that leaves a ruinous
deposit behind, and, later, long weeks when the river-bed is as dry as a desert. So it was
when I saw it last fall; and the old stone bridge, almost sand-covered like an Egyptian ruin,
was at once a melancholy monument to the gladness and fertility of a vanished era, and an argument
for forest-conservation that should carry conviction to all who see it.

The next day as I rode amid the strange traffic of Nankou Pass I found this argument translated
into even more directly human terms. For of the scores of awkward-moving camels and quaint-looking
Mongolian horses and donkeys that I saw homeward-bound after their southward trip, a great
number were carrying little bags of coal--dearly bought fuel to be sparingly used through the
long winter's cold in quantities just large enough to cook the meagre meals, or in extreme
weather to keep the poor peasants from actually freezing. Only in the rarest cases are the
Chinese able to use fuel for warming themselves; they can afford only enough for cooking purposes.

Yet in sight of the peasant's home, perhaps--in any case, not far away--are mountain peaks
too steep for cultivation, but which with wise care of the tree-growth would have provided
fuel for thousands and tens of thousands, and at a fraction of the price at which wood or coal
must now be bought.

Japan, Korea, and India--the whole Orient in fact--bear witness to the importance of the forestry
messages which Gifford Pinchot and Theodore Roosevelt have been drumming into our more or less
uncaring ears for a decade past. When I reached Yokohama I found it impossible to get into
the northern part of the island of Hondo because of the {264} flood damage to the railroads,
and the lives of several friends of mine had been endangered in the same disaster. The dams
of bamboo-bound rocks that I found men building near Nikko and Miyanoshita by way of remedy
may not amount to much; but there is much hope in the general programme for reforesting the
desolated areas, which I found the Japanese Department of Agriculture and Commerce actively
prosecuting. Here is a good lesson for America. In Korea, however, the Japanese lumbermen,
even in very recent years, have given little thought to the morrow and with such results as
might be expected. The day I reached Seoul, one of its older citizens, standing on the banks
of the Han just outside the ancient walls, remarked, "When I was young this was called the
Bottomless River, because of its great depth. Now, as you can see, it is all changed. The bed
is shallow, in some places nearly filled up, and it has been but a few weeks since great damage
was done by overflows right here in Seoul."

Yet another kind of conservation to which our people in Occidental lands need to give more
earnest heed is the conservation of the individual wealth of the people. The wastefulness of
the average American is apparent enough from a comparison of conditions here with conditions
in Europe--when I came back from my first European trip I remarked that "Europe would live
on what America wastes"--but a comparison of conditions in America with those in the Orient
is even more to our discredit. In Lafcadio Hearn's books on Japan we find a glorification of
the Japanese character that is unquestionably overdone on the whole, but in his contrast between
the wasteful display of fashion's fevered followers in America and the ideals of simple living
that distinguished old Japan, there is a rebuke for us whose justice we cannot gainsay. Take
an old Japanese sage like Baron Shibusawa, who, like Count Okuma, it seems might well have
been one of Plutarch's men, and you are not surprised to hear him mention the extravagance
of America as the thing that impressed him more {265} than anything else in traveling in our
country. "To spend so much money in making a mere railroad station palatial as you have done
in Washington, for example, seems to me uneconomic," he declared.

What most impressed him and other Oriental critics with whom I talked, be it remembered, was
the wastefulness of expenditures not for genuine comforts but for fashion and display--the
vagaries of idle rich women who pay high prices for half-green strawberries in January but
are hunting some other exotic diet when the berries get deliciously ripe in May, and who rave
over an American Beauty in December but have no eyes for the full-blown glory of the open-air
roses in June. It is such unnatural display that most grates against the "moral duty of simplicity
of life," as Eastern sages have taught it.

"When I was in the Imperial University here in Tokyo," a Japanese newspaper man said to me,
"my father gave me six yen a month, $3 American money. I paid for room, light, and food $1.20
a month; for tuition, 50 cents; for paper, books, etc., 30 cents; and this left me $1 for pocket
money expenditures, including the occasional treat of eating potatoes with sugar!" In such
Spartan simplicity the victors of Mukden, Liao-yang and Port Arthur were bred.

The great founder of the Tokugawa dynasty, Iyeyasu, whose tomb at Nikko situated at the end
of a twenty-five mile avenue of giant cryptomerias, is the Mecca of all tourists, has expressed
in two memorable sayings the Japanese conception of the essential immorality of waste, of the
regard that is due every product of human labor as being itself in some sense human or at least
a throb with the blood of the toiler who has wrought it and moist with the sweat of his brow.
When virtual dictator of Japan, Iyeyasu was seen smoothing out an old silk kakama. If we do
not think while {266} using these things, of the toil and effort required to produce them,
then our want of consideration puts us on a level with the beasts." Again, when opposing unnecessary
purchases of costly royal garments, he declared.

No wonder Hearn declares of this "cosmic emotion of humanity" which we lack that "we shall
certainly be obliged to acquire it at a later date simply to save ourselves from extermination."

The importance of saving the wealth of nations from the wastes of war and the wastes of excessive
military expenditures is another lesson that one brings home from a study of conditions abroad.
While our American jingoes are using Japan as a more or less effective bogy to work their purposes,
peace advocates might perhaps even more legitimately hold it up as a "horrible example" to
point their moral as to how war drains the national revenues and exhausts the national wealth.
In the Mikado's empire the average citizen to-day must pay 30 per cent, of his total income
in taxes, the great proportion of this enormous national expenditure growing out of past wars
and preparations for future wars. No wonder venerable Count Okuma, once Premier of the Empire,
said to me: "I look for international arbitration to come not as a matter of sentiment but
as a matter of cold financial necessity. Nations have labored for centuries to build up the
civilization of to-day: it is unthinkable that its advantages must be largely sacrificed for
the support of enormous non-productive armies and navies. That would be simply the Suicide
of Civilization."

For the lesson of all this I may quote the words of Dr. Timothy Richard, one of the most distinguished
Englishmen in China, in the same conversation from which a fragment was quoted in the beginning
of this article:

{267}

"The world is going to be one before you die, sir," he said as we talked together just outside
the walls of the Forbidden City. "We are living in the days of anarchy. Unite the ten leading
nations; let all their armaments be united into one to enforce the decrees of the Supreme Court
of the World. And since it will then be the refusal of recalcitrant nations to accept arbitration
that will make necessary the maintenance of any very large armaments by these united nations,
let them protect themselves by levying discriminating tariff duties against the countries that
would perpetuate present conditions."

All this I endorse. The necessity of preserving the national wealth from the wastes of war
I regard as one of the most important lessons that we may get from the Orient. And yet I would
not have the United States risk entering upon that military unpreparedness which must prove
a fool's paradise until other great nations are brought to accept the principle of arbitration.
The proper programme is to increase by tenfold--yes, a hundredfold--our personal and national
efforts for arbitration, at the same time remembering that so long as the community of nations
recognizes the Rule of Force we cannot secede and set up a reign of peace for ourselves. If
it takes two to make a quarrel, it also takes two to keep a peace. We must be in terrible earnest
about bringing in a new era, and yet we cannot commit the folly of trying to play the peace
game by ourselves. It is not solitaire.

Even more important, whether we consider it from the standpoint of the general welfare or as
a matter of national defence, is the conservation of our physical stamina and racial strength.
Whether the wars of the future are commercial or military it doesn't matter. The prizes will
go to the people who are strong of body and clear of mind. "The first requisite," said Herbert
Spencer, "is a good animal," and not even the success of a Peace Court will ever prevent the
good animal--the power of physical vigor and hardness with its {268} concomitant qualities
of courage, discipline, and daring--from becoming a deciding factor in the struggle between
nations and between races. It has been so from the dawn of history and it will ever be so.

And just here we may question whether the growth of wealth and luxury in the United States
is not tending here, as it has tended in all other nations, toward physical softness and deterioration.
It may be argued on the contrary that while a few Occidental children are luxury-weakened,
a great body of Oriental children are drudgery-weakened. But is there not much more reason
to fear that in our case there is really decay at both ends of our social system--with the
pampered rich children who haven't work enough, and with the hard-driven poor who have too
much? The overworking of the very young is certainly a serious evil in America as well as in
Asia; and even in this matter the Eastern folk are perhaps doing as well, according to their
lights, as we are. In China manufacturing is not yet extensive enough for the problem to be
serious; but in both Japan and India I found the government councils thoroughly aroused to
the importance of conserving child-life, and grappling with different measures for the protection
of both child and women workers. My recollection is that the four thousand brown-bodied Hindu
boys (there were no girls) that I found at work in a Madras cotton mill already have better
legal protection than is afforded the child-workers in some of our American states.

For a long time, too, we have been accustomed to think of the Oriental as the victim of enervating
habits and more or less vicious forms of self-indulgence. But while this may have been true
in the past, the tide is now definitely turning. Fifty years of agitation in the United States
have probably accomplished less to minimize intemperance among us than ten years of anti-opium
agitation has accomplished in ridding China of her particular form of intemperance. I went
to China too late to see the once famous opium dens of Canton and Peking; {269} too late to
see the gorgeous poppy-fields that once lined the banks of the Yangtze; and on the billboards
in Newchang I found such notices as the following concerning morphine, cocaine and similar drugs:

  "In accordance with instructions received through the
  Inspector-General from the Shuiwu Ch'u the public is hereby notified
  that henceforth the importation into China of cocaine ... or
  instruments for its use, except by foreign medical practitioners and
  foreign druggists for medical purposes, is hereby prohibited."

And these foreign doctors handling cocaine are heavily bonded. The Chinaman of to-day is giving
up opium, is little given to other forms of intemperance, is afire with new enthusiasm for
athletics and for military training; and he is already so physically adaptable that I found
him as hardy and untiringly energetic beneath an equatorial sun in Singapore as in the rigorous
climate of north-central Manchuria. It made me wonder if the "meek who are to inherit the earth"
in the end may not prove to be the Chinese!

Perhaps if the United States were a less powerful nation, or if we realized more fully the
keenness of the coming world-struggle for industrial supremacy, we might find our patriotism
a stronger force in warding off some of the evils that now threaten us. In his address to the
German navy, Emperor William recently urged the importance of temperance because of the empire's
need of strong, clear-headed men, unweakened by dissipation; and there can be little doubt
that some such patriotic motive has had not a little to do with the anti-opium movement in
awakening China. Certainly the Japanese with their almost fanatical love of country are easily
influenced by such appeals, and keep such reasons in mind in the training of their young. "For
the sake of the Emperor you must not drink the water from these condemned wells; for the sake
of the Emperor you must observe these sanitary precautions--lest you start an epidemic and
so weaken the {270} Emperor's fighting forces!" So said the Japanese sanitary officers in the
war with Russia; and when the struggle ended Surgeon-General Takaki was able to boast in his
official report:

 "In the Spanish-American War fourteen men died from disease to one
 from bullets. We have established a record of four deaths from
 disease to one from bullets."

In studying these Eastern peoples one is also led inevitably to such reflections as Mr. Roosevelt
gave utterance to in his Romanes lectures a few months ago. Not only are the Orientals schooled
from their youth up to endure hardness like good soldiers, but their natural increase contrasts
strikingly with the steadily decreasing birth-rate of our French and English stocks. In Japan
I soon came to remark that it looked almost as unnatural to see a woman between twenty and
forty without a baby on her back as it would to see a camel without a hump; and Kipling's saying
about the Japanese "four-foot child who walks with a three-foot child who is holding the hand
of a two-foot child who carries on her back a one-foot child" came promptly to mind. In view
of these things it is not surprising to learn that in the last fifty years Japan has increased
in population, through the birth rate alone, "as fast as the United States has gained from
the birth rate plus her enormous immigration." The racial fertility of the Chinese is also
well known; a Chinaman without sons to worship his spirit when he dies is not only temporarily
discredited but eternally doomed. As for India, that every Hindu girl at fourteen must be either
a wife or a widow is a common saying, and readers of "Kim" and "The Naulahka" will recall the
ancient and persistent belief that the wife who is not also a mother of sons is a woman of
ill-omen.

Mr. Putman Weale abundantly justifies the title of his new book, "The Conflict of Color"--the
seeming foreordination of some readjustment of racial relations if present tendencies continue--when
he asserts that while the white races double {271} in eighty years, the yellow or brown double
in sixty, and the black in forty.

This last consideration, that of a possible readjustment of racial relations, leads us very
naturally to inquire, What are the qualities that have given the white race the leadership
thus far? And what may we do for the conservation of these qualities?

There are, of course, certain basic and fundamental reasons for white leadership that I need
not elaborate. For one thing, there is the tonic air of democratic ideals in which long generations
of white men have lived and developed as contrasted with the stifling absolutism of the East.
There is also our emphasis upon the worth of the Individual, our conception of the sacredness
of personality, as compared with the Oriental lack of concern for the individual in its supreme
regard for the family and the State. And even more important perhaps is the fact that the white
man has had a religion that has taught--even if somewhat confusedly at times--that "man is
man and master of his fate," that he is not a plaything of destiny, but a responsible son of
God with enormous possibilities for good or evil, whereas the Oriental has been the victim
of benumbing fatalism that has made him indifferent in industry and achievement, though it
has given him a greater recklessness in war. It would also be difficult to exaggerate the influence
which our radically different estimate of woman has had upon Western civilization. And here
we have to consider not only woman's own direct contributions to progress, but also the indirect
influence of our regard for woman, not as an inferior and a plaything, but as a comrade and
helpmeet. How frequently the ideal of English chivalry--

  "To love one maiden only, cleave to her,
   To worship her by years of noble deeds"--

has been the inspiration of the best that men of our race have wrought, it needs only a glance
at our literature to {272} suggest. These things are indeed basic and fundamental and the question
of their conservation, the preservation of the ideals of the Occident as compared with those
of the Orient, is supremely important not only to us as a nation but to all our human race.
But when one comes to consider only the sheer economic causes of the difference between Oriental
poverty and Occidental plenty, it seems to me impossible to escape the conviction, already
expressed and elaborated that it is mainly a matter of tools and knowledge, education and machinery.

In the Orient every man is producing as little as possible; in the Occident he is producing
as much as possible. That is the case in a nutshell.

With better knowledge and better tools, half the people now engaged in food-production in Asia
could produce all the food that the entire rural population now produces, and the other half
could be released for manufacturing--thereby doubling the earning power and the spending power
of the whole population.

It is universal education and modern machinery, far more than virgin resources, that have made
America rich and powerful. Let her make haste then to learn this final lesson that the Orient
teaches--the necessity of conserving in the fullest degree all the powers that have given us
industrial supremacy: the power of the trained brain and the cunning hand reinforced by all
the magic strength that we may get from our Briarean "Slave of the Lamp," modern machinery.
We must thoroughly educate all our people. Was it not an Oriental prophet who wrote: "My people
are destroyed for lack of knowledge?" In China only 1 per cent, of the people can now read
and write, and the highest hope of the government is that 5 per cent, may be literate by 1917.
In India only 5 per cent, can read and write. In Japan for centuries past, the education of
the common man has also been neglected, but she is now compelling every child to go into the
schools, {273} and her industrial system will doubtless be revolutionized at a result.

In no case must we forget that education, if it is to be effective, must train for efficiency,
must link itself with life and work, must be practical. I had thought of the movement for relating
the school to industry as being confined to America and Europe. But when I landed in Japan
I found the educational authorities there as keenly alive to the importance of the movement
as ours in America; in China I found that the old classical system of education has been utterly
abandoned within a decade; in the Philippines it was the boast of the Commissioner of Education
that the elementary schools in the islands give better training for agriculture and industry
than those in the United States; and in India the school authorities are earnestly at work
upon the same problem.

Knowledge and tools must go hand in hand.

THE END

{274}

{275}

INDEX

American commerce abroad,          87-8, 91-2
American goods sold lower abroad,  101
Ancestor worship, Japan,           7-8
Area and population,
  Manchuria,                       78;
  Philippines,                     163;
  India,                           211
Artistic Japanese,                 40, 48-9

Beans in Manchuria,                75-6 Beasts, India's wild,              258-60 Benares,
202 Boxer troubles,                    125-26

Camels in China,                   116-17
Canton,                            142
Caste system,                      226-35;
  effect on labor,                 229;
  robber caste,                    231;
  defended,                        232
Child marriage in India,           237-8
Children, Hindu,                   223-4
China, premonitions of revolution, 93, 102-6.
China Sea,                         153
Chinese hardiness,                 187-8
Chinese immigration,               114-15
Christian vs. Hindu philosophy,    199, 204-5
Christian vs. Oriental philosophy, 271
Cocoanut planting,                 189
Confucianism,                      103
Conservation of forests,           262-4
Cooperative credit societies,
  Japan,                           25;
  India,                           222
Crops--
  Rice,                            23-5;
  cotton,                          23, 76, 140, 168, 254-7;
  India's crops,                   219
Currency reform in China,          97-98

Diseases and sanitation,           56-64, 72, 135, 170-71
Dress,
  Japanese,                        10-11;
  Indian,                          216

Education,                         272;
  Japanese,                        17;
  Chinese,                         99, 109-11;
  Filipino,                        168-9;
  Indian,                          210
Elephants, Stories about,          193-5
Extravagance, American,            264-6

Factory child labor,               268;
  Japan,                           33
Family government,                 7, 149
Famines in India,                  218-20

Farm animals,
  Japan,                           22;
  Manchuria,                       74;
  Philippines,                     159
Farming--
  Japan,                           21-28;
  Manchurian,                      76;
  Chinese,                         122, 126-8, 140-41, 177;
  Philippine,                      155-6, 165;
  Indian,                          218-23, 255-7;
  tools,                           23, 190, 218;
  houses,                          26, 127, 156, 212
Fatalism,                          227-8
Filipino character,                172
Filipino houses,                   156
Foot binding. Chinese,             133-84
Funeral and burial customs,        77, 124, 128, 144-5, 203-4, 243

Ganges,                            203
German commercial activity,        190
Government,
  Japanese,                        4;
  Korea's corrupt,                 65-7;
  Chinese,                         108
Great Wall,                        120-21

Himalayas, The,                    208-9 Hindu gods and goddesses,          200 Hindu village
described,           212

{276}

India, English rule in,            248-52 India's diversity of races,        248 Individual,
repression of,         55-6 Industrial efficiency,             37, 40, 141

Japan control in
  Korea,                           67-8;
  Manchuria,                       78-92
Japanese city described,           9-11
Japanese-Russian War,              70-72; 90-91

Korea, 60-69

Language--
  Japanese spoken,                 3;
  written,                         9-10;
  Chinese,                         129-30
Lawrence, Sir Henry,               246
Love of nature, Japanese,          27

Machinery, Asia's refusal to use,  183
Manchuria's fertility,             73-4
Manila,                            154
Manufacturing, Japan,              31, 34-47
Marriage customs,
  Japanese,                        5-7, 139;
  Korean,                          63;
  Chinese,                         134;
  Indian,                          236-43
Missionary work,                   59, 69;
  Japan,                           61;
  Korea,                           68;
  Philippines,                     164
Moral standards,                   134, 136
Music,                             5

Odd customs,
  Japan,                           3-6, 12;
  Korean,                          65
Okuma, Count, interviewed,         44-5; 266
Open door in Manchuria, The,       78-92
Opium, China's crusade against,    94-6; 108

Parcels post,                      101 Peking, Glimpses of,               123-25 Perry's Expedition,
58 Persecution of Christians,         51-2, 125-6 Philippine government,             167-70
Philippine resources,              165-7 Philippine scenery,                155-6 "Pidgin English,"
150-51 Politeness, Japanese,              12, 13 Postal savings banks,              169 Poverty
of Oriental people,        175, 210, 252 Practical education,               99, 273 Punishments,
Chinese,              145-6

Racial fertility,                  7, 11, 270-71
Railways,
  Manchurian,                      83-6;
  Chinese,                         139-40
Rangoon,                           190-91
Religions,
  Shintoism,                       49;
  Buddhism,                        49-50, 151, 122-3;
  Confucianism,                    130-31;
  Hinduism,                        198-208, 227
Roads,                             74;
  in Philippines,                  171
Rubber speculation,                188

School term, Japan,                17-18
Size of farms,
  Japan,                           21;
  China,                           126
Slavery in China,                  132
Social gradations, Japanese,       16
"Squeeze" system in China,         96, 112
Story, A Chinese,                  146-7
Superstitions,                     77, 128-9

Taj Mahal described,               244-5
Tariff--
  Japanese,                        30, 44-6;
  Chinese,                         112
Taxes in Japan,                    30
Torrens land titles,               98, 169-70
Tropical vegetation,               186

Wages--
  Japan,                           29, 34, 36, 42, 174;
  China,                           126, 141, 174, 177;
  Burma,                           196;
  India,                           210, 223, 253-4
War spirit,                        267;
  Japan,                           35, 72, 266;
  China,                           111-12
Wedding, A Hindu,                  239
Welfare work in Japanese factories 31-3
Woman's degraded position,         271;
  Japan,                           6, 52-6;
  India,                           236-44
Women laborers,                    39, 43, 177, 253-4
Wu Ting Fang interviewed,          139

Yang-bans, The,                    66 Yangtze River,                     138-9

