Of these the most famous is the writ of habeas corpus. This writ is designed to secure to any
imprisoned person the right to have an immediate preliminary hearing for the purpose of discovering
the reason for his detention. Where the writ is properly issued, the prisoner is brought into
court for a summary examination. If it is found that he has been detained in violation of law,
he is released; if not, he is remanded for trial.

Federal judges may not issue writs of habeas corpus indiscriminately. A writ can be issued
only in the following cases: First, when a prisoner is in jail under Federal custody or authority;
second, when an individual is in jail for some act done or omitted in pursuance of a law of
the United States or the order, process, or decree of some Federal court or judge; third, when
an individual has been detained because of violation of the Constitution or some law or treaty
of the United States; and fourth, when a citizen of a foreign country claims to be imprisoned
for some act committed with the sanction of his government.

569. THE WRIT OF MANDAMUS.--The writ of mandamus may be used against public officials, private
persons, and corporations, for the purpose of forcing them to perform some duty required of
them by law. Properly used, the writ of mandamus is called into action to compel executive
officers to perform some administrative duty. The court will not intervene, however, where
the duty is purely discretionary and its performance dependent either upon the pleasure of
the official, or upon his interpretation of the law. Usually the applicant for a writ of mandamus
must show that he has no other adequate legal remedy, and that he has a clear legal right to
have the action in question performed by the officer.

570. THE WRIT OR BILL OF INJUNCTION.--This writ may be of several distinct types. It may take
the form of a mandatory writ, ordering some person or corporation to maintain a status quo
by performing certain acts. For example, striking railway employees may be ordered to continue
to perform their regular and customary duties while remaining in the service of their employer.

The injunction may take the form of a temporary restraining order forbidding a party to alter
the existing condition of things in question until the merits of the case have been decided.
This is often used in labor disputes.

Sometimes the writ is in the form of a permanent injunction ordering a party not to perform
some act, the results of which cannot be remedied by any proceeding in law. This, too, has
often been used in labor disputes.

571. JUDICIAL INTERPRETATION OF THE STATUTES.--The crowning feature of the American judiciary
is its power to pass upon the constitutionality of state and Federal laws. The Constitution
does not give to the courts the power to declare state or Federal statutes invalid on the ground
that they conflict with the Federal Constitution, but in the famous case of Marbury v. Madison
in 1803, Chief Justice Marshall demonstrated that under the Constitution the Supreme Court
must possess the power of declaring statutes null and void when they conflict with the fundamental
law of the land. In deciding against the validity of a law, the court does not officially annul
it, but merely refuses to enforce the statute in the particular case before the court. Thereupon,
the executive officials who might be charged with the administration of that particular law,
neglect to enforce it.

572. GENERAL POLICY OF THE FEDERAL COURTS.--The Federal courts have consistently refused to
decide abstract questions not presented in the form of a concrete case between parties to an
actual suit. The Supreme Court, for example, will take no notice of a statute until the question
of its constitutionality arises in the form of a concrete case.

The Federal courts have consistently refused to interfere in purely political questions, the
decision of which rests with executive or legislative authorities. For example, the court will
not touch questions of the existence of war or peace, or the admission of a new state into
the Union.

In reaching a decision, two forces are brought to bear upon the courts. First, the character
of previous decisions in similar or analogous cases influences a decision. Second, important
consideration is given the demands of justice or equity in the particular case in hand, regardless
of precedent. Generally speaking judicial decisions strike a course midway between these two
extremes.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What does the Federal Constitution say concerning the structure of the Federal courts?

2. What act forms the basis of our Federal judicial system?

3. How are Federal judges chosen, and what are their salaries?

4. Name some judicial agents other than judges.

5. What is the nature and function of the Supreme Court?

6. What is the nature and function of the Circuit Court of Appeals? Over what cases has it
jurisdiction?

7. What matters may be brought before the District Court?

8. What is the purpose of the Court of Claims?

9. Name some other special Federal courts.

10. What two classes of cases fall within the jurisdiction of the Federal courts?

11. What is the nature and purpose of the writ of habeas corpus?

12. What is the purpose of the writ of mandamus?

13. What three forms may the writ or bill of injunction take?

14. What is the crowning feature of the American judicial system?

15. Outline the general policy of the Federal courts.

16. What two forces help determine a decision?

2. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter xxviii.

3. Munro, The Government of the United States, chapter xxiv.

4. Reed, Form and Functions of American Government, chapter xxiii.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Into what two branches may law be divided? (Munro, page 355.)

2. What is equity? (Munro, page 351.)

3. What are the judicial functions of the Attorney-General of the United States? (Beard, page 300.)

4. What different grades of law are administered in the Federal courts? (Guitteau, page 338.)

5. Discuss the part played by partisan politics in judicial decisions. (Beard, pages 310-312.)

6. What classes of people are exempted from jury service? (Munro, page 354.)

7. Distinguish between the original and the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. (Guitteau,
pages 334-335.)

8. How are cases presented to the Supreme Court? (Beard, page 296.)

9. What is the significance of the Marbury v. Madison case? (Reed, page 284.)

10. Name some other historical decisions which have been handed down by the Supreme Court.
(Guitteau, pages 339-340.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Make a study of the Federal judicial district in which you live, with respect to territory
embraced in the district, names and powers of Federal judicial agents, etc.

2. If possible, visit a near-by Federal court and observe the conduct of a trial.

II

3. The American doctrine of judicial supremacy. (Haines, The American Doctrine of Judicial
Supremacy.)

4. The American system of courts compared with the European system of courts. (Bryce, The American
Commonwealth, vol. i, chapter xxv.)

5. Restraints on judicial officers in the United States. (Cleveland, Organized Democracy, chapter
xxxiii.)

6. Procedure in the United States Supreme Court. (Reinsch, Readings on American Federal Government,
pages 716-717.)

7. The courts and the Constitution. (Beard, The Supreme Court and the Constitution; Bryce,
The American Commonwealth, vol. i, chapter xxiii.)

8. The constitutionality of government regulation of commerce, (Goodnow, Social Reform and
the Constitution, chapter vi.)

9. Attitude of the courts toward social legislation. (Goodnow, Social Reform and the Constitution,
chapter viii.)

10. The Marbury v. Madison case. (Consult an encyclopedia.)

11. The Dartmouth College case. (Consult an encyclopedia.)

12. The life of John Marshall. (Consult an encyclopedia.)

13. Characteristics of a good judge. (Kaye, Readings in Civil Government, pages 247-250.)

14. Evolution of the judiciary. (Gettell, Introduction to Political Science, chapter xx.)

15. Relation of the judiciary to the executive branch of government. (Gettell, Introduction
to Political Science, chapter xx.)

16. Should Federal judges enjoy life terms, or should their terms of service be limited to
a specific number of years?

18. Did the framers of the Constitution intend that the Supreme Court should pass upon the
constitutionality of Acts of Congress? (See Beard, The Supreme Court and the Constitution.)

19. Do you believe that there should be any restriction upon the present power of the Supreme
Court to pass upon the constitutionality of Acts of Congress?

20. In the leading European countries what corresponds to our Supreme Court is divided into
a number of sections. Do you believe that our Supreme Court ought to be reorganized on a similar
plan? (See Munro, The Government of the United States, page 369.)

B. STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT

CHAPTER XLV

CONSTITUTIONAL BASIS OF STATE GOVERNMENT [Footnote: For a fuller discussion of the constitutional
basis of state government, see Chapter XXII of Beard's American Government and Politics. ]

573. CONSTITUTIONAL LIMITATIONS ON STATE GOVERNMENTS.--Under the Articles of Confederation
the states exercised practically sovereign powers; in the interests of a strong National government
the Constitution adopted in 1789 distinctly limited the scope of state government. The Federal
Constitution transferred many important powers from the states to the Federal government, and
imposed certain specific limitations upon state governments. The more important of these limitations
are as follows:

No state may, without the consent of Congress, lay or collect imposts and duties upon exports
and imports. The single exception to this constitutional prohibition is that a state may lay
such imports or duties as are absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws. No state
may lay a tonnage duty without the consent of Congress.

No state may levy a tax on the property, lawful agencies, or instrumentalities of the Federal
government. This is not a constitutional limitation, but was deduced by Chief Justice Marshall
from the nature of the Federal system. In recent years, however, this doctrine has been modified
to mean that no state may tax a federal instrumentality if such a tax would impair its efficiency
in performing the function which it was designed to serve.

States may legislate concerning local commercial matters, but no state may interfere with interstate
commerce. No state may pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts. The states have
practically no control over the monetary system. States may charter and regulate state banks,
however, and may also authorize a state bank to issue notes for circulation.

No state may make or enforce any law which abridges the privileges or immunities of citizens
of the United States. No state shall pass any bill of attainder, by which is meant a legislative
act which inflicts punishment upon some person without ordinary judicial trial. Nor may any
state pass an ex post facto law, that is to say, a law which imposes punishment for an act
which was not legally punishable at the time when it was committed.

574. POWERS OF STATE GOVERNMENTS.--Federal law is the highest law of the land, and no state
constitution, state statute, or local law or ordinance, may contravene it. But beyond this
restriction, the authority of the state is supreme. Just as state government must defer to
Federal authority, so local government is subservient to state authority. Just as the Federal
Supreme Court may declare unconstitutional any executive or legislative act, either of the
National, state, or local authorities, so the Supreme Court of any state may declare null and
void the acts of state or local authorities which conflict with its constitution. Though they
are limited by the Federal Constitution in matters which are preeminently national, the states
reserve to themselves a vast body of authority. Almost all of the ordinary activities of life
are controlled by state or local governments, rather than by the Federal government.

575. CLASSIFICATION OF STATE CONSTITUTIONS: ACCORDING TO AGE.--Each of the forty-eight states
in the Union has a written constitution. To bring out the fundamental similarities and differences
among the various state constitutions, these documents may be classified in two ways, first
as to age, and second, in the light of democratic development.

If state constitutions are classified on the basis of age, it will be noted that the constitutions
of Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, and other New England states show signs of having
been strongly influenced by colonial precedents. Next come constitutions which in form and
general content stand midway between the earlier New England constitutions and those of more
recent years. The constitutions of New York (1894), Pennsylvania (1873), Indiana (1851), Wisconsin
(1848), Kentucky (1891), Minnesota (1857), and Iowa (1857), are examples. Next come those constitutions
of the southern states which have been revised within the last quarter of a century. Finally,
we may note that California, Oregon, Oklahoma and a few other western states have recently
drafted new constitutions in which there has been a more or less radical departure from the
precedents set in the older commonwealths.

576. CLASSIFICATION OF STATE CONSTITUTIONS: IN THE LIGHT OF DEMOCRATIC DEVELOPMENT.--Between
1776 and 1800 American state constitutions were generally brief and conservative. Between 1800
and 1860 the growing tendency toward democratic control resulted in the formation of state
constitutions which were more and more liberal. During this period fear of the masses was superseded
by distrust of the executive and an unbounded faith in the people acting in their collective
capacity. The suffrage was extended, the governor and often state judges came to be elected
by direct vote, and the power of the state legislature was enlarged.

After 1860 there was a reverse movement. This was due partly to a growing faith in the executive,
and partly to a reaction against the abuse of power by state legislatures. Particularly the
more recent state constitutions have limited the power of the state legislature, increased
the power of the executive, provided for the centralization of the state administration, and
shortened the ballot. The present tendency among state constitutions is to continue in the
direction of the above-mentioned reforms.

A. THE PARTS OF A STATE CONSTITUTION

577. THE BILL OF RIGHTS.--A vital part of a state constitution is the bill of rights, roughly
corresponding to the first ten amendments to the Federal Constitution. Generally the bill of
rights affirms the principle of republican government, maintains that all powers are inherent
in the people, and declares that all free government is formed by the authority of the people.
A typical bill of rights also provides that the laws of the state shall not be suspended except
by the legislative assembly, and includes the traditional limitations on behalf of private
rights. These include the right of free speech; the right to jury trial; the free exercise
of religious worship; the right peaceably to assemble and petition the government for redress
of grievances; the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus except in case of rebellion, invasion,
or public danger; the prohibition of excessive bail, and cruel and unusual punishments; and
compensation for private property when taken for public use.

578. THE FRAMEWORK OF GOVERNMENT.--A second part of a typical state constitution deals with
the distribution of powers, the limitations upon state officials and other elements in the
framework of government. Especially in the more recent constitutions is the form of state government
outlined in considerable detail. In addition to providing a system of checks and balances by
separating the executive, legislative, and judicial powers of state government, this part of
the constitution defines and limits the suffrage, provides for the organization of the state
legislature, and prescribes the limitations under which the legislature must operate. The election
of the Governor and other important state officials is provided for, as is the relation of
rural and municipal government to the state government. This part of the constitution likewise
creates the state judicial system, though the regulation of details with regard to jurisdiction,
procedure, and appeals is generally left to the discretion of the state legislature.

579. STATE FINANCES.--A third division of a typical state constitution places a number of limitations
upon the financial powers of the state legislature. These provisions are often detailed and
complicated and hence are difficult to summarize. Their general purpose, however, is to fix
a debt limit beyond which the legislature cannot go, and to compel that body to make adequate
provision for the payment of interest and principal in the case of debts which shall be incurred.

580. CONTROL OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS.--The more recent state constitutions provide in considerable
detail for the regulation of economic interests within the state. The activities of industrial
organizations are often narrowly restricted. In many states the constitution provides for a
corporation commission with large powers in the regulation of rates and charges, as well as
general supervision of corporate business. Many recent constitutions specify the conditions
under which women and children may be employed in industrial establishments.

581. PROVISION FOR THE GENERAL WELFARE.--An increasingly important part of the state constitution
deals with the general welfare. Such vital concerns as the public school system are dealt with.
In a typical western state, for example, the constitution requires the legislature to provide
free instruction in the common schools of the state for all persons between the ages of five
and twenty-five. The same document sets aside certain revenues for educational purposes. The
safeguarding of the public health, and detailed provision for the creation and maintenance
of public institutions for the dependent, defective, and delinquent classes, are other concerns
of this part of the state constitution.

582. PROVISION FOR AMENDMENT.--In about two thirds of the states the constitution provides
for its own amendment by a constitutional convention composed of delegates elected by the voters
of the state. The convention method is universally employed when a new constitution is desired.
Sometimes the state constitution provides for the holding of such conventions at regular intervals,
but generally the initiative is left to the legislature. When, by vote or by resolution, this
body declares in favor of a convention, the proposition is placed before the voters. If a majority
of these favor the project, the legislature arranges for the election of delegates, and fixes
the time and place of the convention sessions. After the convention has completed its work,
it is customary for the new constitution to be submitted to the people for approval.

Another common way of amending the state constitution, found in every state except New Hampshire,
is through legislative action subsequently ratified by popular vote. By this method separate
constitutional amendments may be adopted, without necessitating a wholesale revision of the
constitution. Such individual amendments are usually proposed by the legislature and are later
submitted to popular vote. In some states only a majority vote of the legislature is required
for the proposal of amendments, but ordinarily a special majority of two thirds or three fourths
of the members of each house is required. In a few states, amendments cannot be considered
until they have been proposed by two successive legislatures. After the amendment has been
proposed for the second time, it must be ratified at the polls.

Within the last decade several states, particularly in the West, have adopted a more direct
method of amending the constitution. This is through the Initiative and Referendum. [Footnote:
The general question of the Initiative and Referendum is treated in Chapter XXXVII.] In Oregon,
for example, 8 per cent of the legal voters may petition for a proposed amendment to the constitution.
The proposal is then submitted to the voters, and if it receives a majority of all votes cast,
it becomes part of the state constitution. Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Michigan,
Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, and other states allow this type of constitutional
amendment.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What are the chief limitations imposed upon state governments by the Federal Constitution?

2. Discuss the range of authority enjoyed by state governments.

3. Classify state constitutions on the basis of age.

4. Discuss the classification of state constitutions in the light of democratic development.

5. What is the nature of a "bill of rights"?

6. Discuss the framework of government as provided for in the state constitution.

7. What provision for state finances does a typical state constitution contain?

8. What are some of the provisions in state constitutions concerning economic interests?

9. How may a state constitution provide for the general welfare?

10. Describe the three ways in which state constitutions may be amended.

2. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter viii.

3. Munro, The Government of the United States, chapter xxviii.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. What is the significance of the "Revolutionary constitutions"? (Guitteau, page 86.) 2. What
is the relation of present-day state constitutions to the original colonial charters? (Munro,
page 404.) 3. Distinguish between the "constituent" and the "law-making" power. (Munro, page
405.) 4. Into what two parts may the early state constitutions be divided? (Guitteau, page
86.) 5. Discuss the check and balance system as provided for in the constitutions of the various
states. (Guitteau, page 89.) 6. What authority controls the admission of new states into the
Union? (Beard, pages 443-445.) 7. What does the constitution of Oklahoma say concerning the
writ of habeas corpus? (Beard, page 449.) 8. Describe the procedure in a constitutional convention.
(Munro, pages 410-411.) 9. What is the relation of the state constitution to the state courts?
(Beard, pages 452-453.) 10. Enumerate the principles which commonly govern the attitude of
the state courts toward the acts of the state legislature. (Beard, pages 452-453.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. The history of your present state constitution.

2. The bill of rights in your state constitution.

3. The framework of government as provided for in the constitution of your state.

4. Methods by means of which your state constitution may he amended.

5. Classify and briefly characterize the amendments which have been appended to the constitution
of your state.

II

6. Meaning of the term "constitution." (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, pages 282-283.)

7. Types of constitutions. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, pages 284-285; Kimball,
State and Municipal Government in the United States, chapter ii.)

8. Methods of amending constitutions. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, pages 299-300.)

9. Difficulties of constitutional amendment in the United States. (Gettell, Readings in Political
Science, page 301.)

10. Procedure in the state constitutional convention. (Massachusetts Constitutional Convention
Bulletins, No. i. Hoar, Constitutional Conventions.)

11. Recent changes in constitutions. (Dealey, Growth of American State Constitutions from 1776
to the end of the Year 1914.)

12. Present tendencies in state constitutions. (Reinsch, Readings on American State Government,
pages 443-449.)

13. The constitution of Oklahoma. (Reinsch, Readings on American State Government, pages 450-464.)

14. A comparison of constitutional amendment in Europe and constitutional amendment in the
United States. (Borgeaud, Adoption and Amendment of Constitutions in Europe and America.)

15. British constitutions. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, pages 286-287; 292-293.)

16. French constitutions. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, pages 297-298.)

17. German constitutions. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, pages 298-299.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

18. Does the Federal Constitution too narrowly restrict the activities of the state governments?

19. Does the bill of rights in your state constitution adequately protect your rights?

20. Does the constitution of your state too narrowly restrict the financial powers of the state
legislature?

21. Is your state constitution too easy of amendment? Is it too difficult of amendment?

22. Recent state constitutions tend to be very long and detailed. What are the advantages and
disadvantages of this development?

CHAPTER XLVI

THE STATE EXECUTIVE

A. THE GOVERNOR

583. THE ELECTION OF THE GOVERNOR.--In every state in the Union the Governor is elected by
popular vote. In most of the states this election takes place, together with that of other
state officials, on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November. Usually a gubernatorial
candidate is required to be at least thirty years of age. He must be a United States citizen,
and also a resident of his state of at least five years' standing.

The Governor's term varies from two years in Massachusetts to four years in more than twenty
states. In general, the term of office is increasing. The average salary received by a state
Governor is $5000 a year.

584. LIMITATIONS UPON THE GOVERNOR.--A number of factors operate to limit the power of the
state Governor.

The Federal Constitution limits his authority by declaring that persons charged with crime
in, and escaped from, a neighboring state, must be delivered up to the executive authorities
of the state in which the crime is charged to have been committed.

The executive power of state government is not concentrated under the Governor, but is shared
by the Governor with a host of administrative officials. Many of these officials are elected
directly by the people, and cannot, therefore, be held accountable by the Governor. Furthermore,
the actual execution of the state laws rests primarily with municipal and other local officials,
and over these officers the Governor has little or no control. The express powers of the President
of the United States have been rather liberally interpreted by the courts, but the powers of
the state Governor have generally been construed in a narrow and literal sense. In many states
the power of the Governor rarely or never extends beyond the express limits imposed by the
state constitution.

585. EXECUTIVE POWERS OF THE GOVERNOR.--The Governor is charged by the state constitution to
see that the laws are faithfully executed. This is similar to the chief duty of the President
of the United States, but whereas the President is aided by subordinate administrative officials
over whom he has complete control, the Governor must act through a large number of state and
local officials over whom he has little effective control.

Of some value, however, is the power of the Governor to exercise general supervision over the
various executive officers of the state. He enjoys, in addition, the power to appoint many
of the subordinate administrative officials. Usually these appointments must be confirmed by
the upper house of the state legislature. In most cases the Governor cannot remove officials
so appointed without the consent of the senate or council.

The Governor is commander-in-chief of the armed forces of the state, and when the regular officers
of the law are unable to cope with domestic violence, he is empowered to call out the militia.
In this connection, the Governor has the power of suspending the writ of habeas corpus, though
most states declare that this writ may not be suspended except in times of rebellion and invasion.
Two or three states have recently provided that the writ of habeas corpus may not be suspended
in any case whatsoever.

586. LEGISLATIVE POWERS OF THE GOVERNOR.--In general the Governor occupies the same relation
to the state legislature, as does the President toward Congress. Thus the Governor may send
periodic messages to the legislature, and may recommend such legislative measures as he believes
desirable. The Governor often communicates with the legislature concerning the financial condition
and needs of the state. The Governor may also call special sessions of the state legislature,
for the consideration of urgent matters. In case the two houses of the legislature are unable
to agree upon a time for adjournment, the Governor may adjourn the state legislature.

In one respect the Governor's power of veto exceeds that of the President, for in about two
thirds of the states the Governor may veto individual items in appropriation bills. This privilege
is denied the President, who must accept or reject a measure as a whole. Like the President,
the Governor influences legislation through his relations with the leaders of his party in
the legislature, as well as through his power of the patronage.

587. JUDICIAL POWERS OF THE GOVERNOR.--In almost every state the Governor has considerable
control over the issuance of pardons and reprieves, in the case of all offenses committed against
the state. In some states the power to issue pardons and reprieves is exercised with the consent
of the state legislature, in other states the Governor shares this power with a board of pardons;
in a few states the Governor may act alone.

588. TENDENCY OF THE GOVERNOR'S POWER TO INCREASE.--The earlier state constitutions tended
to restrict the powers of the Governor, and to extend liberal grants of power to the state
legislature. Of recent years the abuse of legislative power has tended to encourage suspicion
of the legislature and a growing confidence in the Governor. As a consequence, the Governor's
term is in many states increasing. In the effort to shorten the ballot and concentrate responsibility
for the state administration upon some one official, various states are increasing the appointive
power of the Governor. In a few states the Governor now has authority to make special inquiries
into the workings of the various executive departments, with a view to checking inefficient
and irresponsible methods of work. In some states the Governor's share in budget-making is
increasing. In the majority of states the general tendency toward a shorter ballot, the reorganization
of the state administration, and other methods of reforming state government, will probably
continue to enlarge the power and influence of the Governor.

B. THE STATE ADMINISTRATION

589. THE OLDER GROUP OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.--Aside from the Governor, the administrative
officers of the state fall into two groups: First, the older officers, who are relatively few,
and who are almost always elective; and second, the newer officers, boards, and commissions,
who are relatively numerous, and who may be either elective or appointive.

The first group comprises such officers as the Lieutenant Governor, the Secretary of State,
the State Treasurer, the Auditor or Comptroller, and the Attorney-General. These older officers
are usually elected at the general state election for a term varying from state to state. These
officers are not under the control of the Governor, but fulfill duties prescribed by the constitution,
and are responsible only to the people and to the courts. They may be, and often are, of a
different political party than the Governor, and since they are not under the control of that
official, they often work at cross-purposes with him. This lack of coördination is in striking
contrast to the harmony of action existing between the President of the United States and the
heads of the Federal Executive Departments.

590. THE NEWER GROUP OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.--As state government has increased in complexity,
the older group of administrative officers has been supplemented by the addition of a large
number of new officers.

These newer administrative officials are quite numerous, but their general character may be
indicated by dividing them into two classes:

The first class includes individual officers, such as, for example, a superintendent of prisons,
a state architect, a state historian, a commissioner of health, a food inspector, a geologist,
a commissioner of corporations, a commissioner of banking, a superintendent of public works,
and a state surveyor.

Besides individual officers, the newer group of administrative officials includes a large number
of boards and commissions which have been created by the state legislature and endowed with
large powers for the study and control of specific matters. The following boards and commissions
are examples of this second class: A state civil service commission, a tax commission, a board
of charities and correction, a water supply commission, a tax equalization board, a quarantine
commission, a voting machine commission, a board of pharmacy, a highway commission, and a public
service commission.

591. DEFECTS OF STATE ADMINISTRATION. [Footnote: For a fuller discussion of this problem, see
Chapter XXXVI.]--The enlargement of the state administration by this creation of numerous individual
offices, boards, and commissions indicates an attempt on the part of state governments to grapple
with the problems of democracy. Nevertheless, this rapid growth of the state administration
has had serious consequences. Once created, many of the newer officers have attempted to perpetuate
themselves. State legislatures have been harassed by boards and commissions seeking unnecessary
appropriations. Politicians without expert training or ability are often placed on boards and
commissions dealing with technical matters.

Responsible and efficient state government is rendered difficult by the inability of the Governor
effectively to control the few elective officials who constitute the older group of administrative
officers; an even greater difficulty arises from the creation and expansion of the newer group
of officers. The excessive number of individual officers, boards, and commissions makes for
inefficient and irresponsible government. Some of these officials are elected by the people,
others are appointed by the Governor. Their terms vary so widely that, as Professor Beard has
pointed out, the appointing power never has an opportunity to make a clean sweep and introduce
more efficient administrative methods. There is little or no coördination between the various
administrative offices, and very little centralization of responsibility.

592. THE STATE OF CIVIL SERVICE.--The spoils system has long constituted a defect, not only
in the Federal government but in American state government as well. [Footnote: This problem
is further discussed in Chapter XXXIV.] And as in the case of the National government, this
evil has been attacked primarily through the merit system. New York state led the way in 1883
by passing a comprehensive Civil Service Act. This law provided for a commission authorized
to coöperate with the Governor in preparing rules, classifying the state civil service, and
conducting the examinations for the positions to be filled. Since then, Massachusetts, Wisconsin,
Colorado, New Jersey, California, Ohio, Illinois, and other states have adopted some type of
civil service system.

State civil service laws are largely modelled after the national Civil Service Act of 1883.
In most of the legislating states laws of this type provide for competitive examinations of
a practical nature; they prohibit political and religious interrogatives; and they forbid the
assessment of holders of civil service positions for political purposes. Appointment and promotion
are upon the basis of merit, although as in the case of the Federal civil service, the standards
for judging the character and capacity of individual officeholders have not yet been perfected.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What are the qualifications of the state Governor?

2. What limitations restrict the power of the Governor?

3. Outline the executive powers of the Governor.

4. What are the chief legislative powers of the Governor?

5. Describe the judicial powers of the Governor.

6. Is the power of the Governor increasing or decreasing?

7. Into what two groups may state administrative officers be divided?

8. Name some of the officials in the older group.

9. Discuss the character of the newer group of officials,

10. Name the chief defects of state administration.

11. Discuss the state civil service.

2. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter x.

3. How many states elect the Governor for two years? (Beard, page 490.)

2. How is the Governor of Mississippi elected? (Beard, page 489.)

3. What is the function of the lieutenant governor? (Beard, pages 499- 500.)

4. What are the functions of the state treasurer? (Beard, page 500.)

5. What are the chief duties of the attorney-general of the state? (Beard, page 500.)

6. Discuss the impeachment process in state government. (Beard, pages 508-509.)

7. Name some miscellaneous duties of the Governor. (Reed, page 116.)

8. What is the nature of the Governor's messages? (Reed, page 118.)

9. How is a vacancy in the Governorship filled? (Munro, page 433.)

10, Name some states in which the movement for the consolidation of state administrative offices
is active. (Guitteau, page 112.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Term, qualifications, and salary of the Governor of your state.

2. A short biography of the present Governor of your state.

3. Platform on which the present Governor of your state was elected

4. A comparison of the influence exerted by the President of the United States upon the National
legislature, and the influence exerted upon the state legislature by the Governor of your commonwealth.

5. A classification of the administrative officers of your state.

6. History of the merit system in your state.

II

7. A comparative study of state governors in the United States. (Beard, American Government
and Politics, page 491.)

8. The legislative power of the Governor. (Mathews, Principles of American State Administration,
chapter iii.)

9. The veto power of the Governor. (Munro, The Government of the United States, pages 435-438.)

10. Some special functions of the Governor. (Mathews, Principles of American State Administration,
chapter v.)

11. Relation of the Governor to law enforcement. (Reinsch, Readings on American State Government,
pages 26-40.)

13. The organization of the state administration. (Mathews, Principles of American State Administration,
chapter vii.)

14. The work of the state administration. (Munro, The Government of the United States, chapter
xxxi; Kimball, State and Municipal Government in the United States, chapter ix.)

15. The selection of state officials. (Mathews, Principles of American State Administration,
chapter viii.)

16. The removal of state officials. (Mathews, Principles of American State Administration,
Principles of American State Administration, chapter ix.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

18. Should the veto power of your state Governor be still further restricted? Should it be
enlarged?

19. Should the administrative offices in your state be reorganized and consolidated?

20. Ought the merit system in your state to be extended?

21. Advantages and disadvantages of choosing administrative officials by direct vote.

CHAPTER XLVII

THE STATE LEGISLATURE

593. STRUCTURE OF THE STATE LEGISLATURE.--The representative branch of state government is
known under different names in various states, but the term "state legislature" is in more
or less general use.

The state legislature is invariably a two-chambered body; the upper house is the smaller and
is called the senate, while the lower and more numerous branch is variously known as the house
of representatives, house of delegates, or assembly.

Usually the state senate differs from the lower house in certain important particulars. The
senatorial districts from which members of the upper house are elected are always larger than
are the districts from which members to the lower house are chosen. Senators are usually chosen
for longer terms than are representatives. As in the case of the National Senate, the senate
(in most states) is made a continuous body by the provision that its members shall begin their
terms at certain periodic intervals. In the lower house of the state legislature, on the other
hand, all of the members take their seats at the same time.

594. BASIS OF REPRESENTATION.--For the purpose of electing members of the state legislature,
practically all of the states are divided into numerous senatorial and representative election
districts. Some states apply the rule that representatives in the state legislature shall be
apportioned among districts containing practically an equal number of inhabitants.

Other states, however, provide exceptions to this rule. For example, Alabama, Florida, New
York and other states provide that each county shall have at least one member in the house.
Often the result of this arrangement is that the smaller or more sparsely populated counties
are over-represented in the state legislature, while the more populous counties are under-represented.

Several states, notably Connecticut and Vermont, arrange representation in the state legislature
so that with respect to population, cities are under-represented and rural districts are over-
represented. [Footnote: For a discussion of the problem of minority representation in state
legislatures, see Chapter XXXV.]

595. MEMBERSHIP.--The state constitution determines the qualifications of those who are entitled
to vote for state legislators. [Footnote: For an enumeration of these qualifications, see Chapter
XXXIII, Section 415.] Generally, anyone qualified to vote for a state legislator is also eligible
to membership. However, holders of both Federal and state offices are excluded from sitting
in the state legislature.

In some states the term of a senator is the same as that of a representative, but generally
senators are elected for a longer term than are members to the lower house. Representatives
are generally chosen for two years, senators for four.

In all states, members of the legislature are paid, either a fixed annual salary or a per diem
allowance based upon the length of the legislative session. In most states senators and representatives
receive equal compensation.

All state legislators are privileged from arrest or civil process during the session. In addition
they enjoy the usual privilege of free speech in their official capacities.

596. ORGANIZATION.--Formerly state legislatures met annually, but at present the great majority
convene only once in two years. In the effort to cut down the amount of superfluous legislation,
a number of state constitutions now restrict the legislative session to from forty to ninety
days. The legislature may adjourn itself to meet later in special session, or the Governor
may call special sessions. The Governor may adjourn the legislature, if the two houses fail
to agree upon a time for adjournment.

In internal organization, the state legislature resembles Congress. Except that the lieutenant
governor is often the presiding officer of the senate, each house chooses all of its own officers.
Each house determines its own rules of procedure and keeps a journal of its proceedings. In
addition, each house exercises the right of deciding upon the qualifications of its members,
and disciplines and punishes its members for misconduct. As in the national legislature, work
is expedited by the committee system. The party is a dominant force in the state as well as
in the national legislature.

597. POWERS OF THE STATE LEGISLATURE--The law-making powers of the state legislature extend
to practically all subjects. The presumption is that this body has a right to legislate upon
any subject, unless specific prohibitions have been imposed upon it by either the Federal or
the state constitution.

The Federal Constitution forbids any state legislature to emit bills of credit, coin money,
or pass laws impairing the obligation of contracts. Neither bills of attainder nor ex post
facto legislation may be enacted by a state legislature. The Federal Constitution likewise
declares that state legislatures may neither abridge the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the United States, nor deprive persons of life, liberty, or property without due process
of law. No state may deny to any person within the state jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws.

Restrictions imposed by the state constitution fall into several groups. These include restrictions
in favor of trial by jury, religious freedom, and other privileges usually embodied in a bill
of rights; provisions controlling the grant of special favors to corporations; restrictions
upon the financial powers of the state legislature; provisions defining the framework of state
government; and prohibitions upon the power of the legislature to pass special and local laws.
[Footnote: A special or local law is one which applies to some particular individual or corporation,
or to some particular city, county, or other locality. Prohibitions upon special and local
laws are necessary in order to prevent the legislature from extending special favors to particular
individuals or localities. ]

598. HOW A STATE LAW IS MADE.--Bills may originate in either house of the state legislature,
except that in most states money bills must originate in the lower chamber.

To illustrate law-making in the state legislature, let us assume that a bill is introduced
in the lower house. This may be done by any one of several methods. Any member of the house
may deposit a bill in a box near the speaker's desk. Sometimes a bill is introduced by the
report of a committee, or even by a messenger from the senate. When the bill has been introduced,
it is given a first reading. With the consent of the house, the speaker then refers the measure
to the appropriate committee. The adverse report of the committee generally kills the bill;
but if the bill is favorably reported, and this report is approved by the house, the bill is
placed on the order of second reading and is debated section by section, unless by unanimous
vote it is advanced to the third reading. If the bill passes the second reading, it is generally
referred to the committee on revision. It is then engrossed, reported back to the house for
the third reading and the final vote. Sometimes the yeas and nays of this final vote are entered
upon the journal, so that responsibility may be fixed upon each member.

The bill then goes to the senate, where the procedure is very much like that of the house,
except that the committee of the whole sometimes takes the place of the order of the second
reading as conducted in the house.

599. THE BILL GOES TO THE GOVERNOR.--In every state except North Carolina, a bill which has
passed both branches of the legislature must then go to the Governor for approval. If this
officer signs it, it becomes law. If he disapproves of it, he returns it with his objections
to the house in which it originated. In spite of this objection by the Governor the legislature
may enact the measure into law, if a sufficiently large majority in each house votes in favor
of the bill. This majority is usually two thirds of the members in each house.

Generally the Governor has a ten-day period in which to consider bills. If a bill is not returned
to the legislature with his objections within this period, it automatically becomes law without
his signature, unless the adjournment of the legislature prevents its return to that body.
In most states the Governor has the important privilege of vetoing particular items in appropriation
bills, while sanctioning the rest of the measure.

600. DEFECTS IN STATE LEGISLATION. [Footnote: For a fuller discussion see Chapter XXXVI.]--There
is, among students of American government, a general agreement that the legislative procedure
of the various states evidences a number of serious defects.

One of these defects is the absence of responsibility. Any member of the state legislature
may introduce as many bills as he likes, but he need not assume responsibility for any of them.

Another serious evil is the lack of experience and technical skill on the part of legislators.
Legislators are frequently ignorant of the subject matter with which they are called upon to
deal. There is a tendency for legislators to ignore the effect of a new statute upon the existing
body of law. Nor is the constitutionality of the measure contemplated always taken into account.
Ill-advised and pernicious legislation is the result.

Log-rolling and lobbying constitute another defect of state legislation. Log-rolling leads
to the passage of numerous bills without their adequate scrutiny by individual members, and
without either individual members or legislative committees assuming responsibility for those
measures. The pressure exerted upon state legislatures for legislation favoring special interests
is still great.

601. THE REFORM OF LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE.--A few states have attempted to overcome the lack
of technical information on the part of legislators by providing for expert bill drafters.
In New York, for example, the state legislature has been provided with a number of competent
bill drafters whose duty it shall be, during the session of the legislature, to draw bills,
examine and revise proposed bills, and advise as to the legal effect of any legislation. These
bill drafters may be set to work on the request of either house, or of a committee, member,
or officer thereof.

A large number of states now have a legislative reference bureau which keeps a careful record
of the laws passed in the various states of the Union. This bureau maintains a library, and
issues bulletins for the guidance of legislators.

In 1909 Wisconsin created the office of reviser. This officer keeps a loose-leaf system of
laws, and collects court decisions affecting statutes. At the beginning of each session this
officer also presents to the committees on revision of each house of the legislature, bills
providing for such consolidation and revisions as may be completed from time to time. The reviser
supervises the preparation, printing, and binding of such compilations of particular portions
of the statutes as may be ordered by the head of any state department.

There is an increasing tendency to curb lobbying in state legislatures. The laws of New York
and Wisconsin may be taken as typical. That of New York provides that every person retained
or employed for compensation as a counsel or agent by any person, firm, corporation, or association,
to promote or oppose, directly or indirectly, the passage of any bill or resolution, must be
registered every year in the office of the secretary of state, and must give the name of the
person by whom he is retained. The Wisconsin law provides that legislative agents or counsels
may not attempt to influence members privately, but must confine themselves to arguing before
committees and filing printed briefs with the members of the legislature.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. Discuss the structure of the state legislature.

2. In what ways does the senate usually differ from the lower house?

3. What is the basis of representation in the state legislature?

4. How are the qualifications of state representatives determined?

5. Compare the term of senator with that of state representative.

6. Outline the organization of the legislature.

7. Compare the organization of the state legislature with that of the national legislature.

8. What is the scope of power enjoyed by the state legislature?

9. What limitations are placed upon state legislatures?

10. Describe the making of a state law.

11. Discuss the veto power of the Governor.

12. What are some defects of state legislation?

13. Outline some attempts to eliminate these defects.

2. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter ix.

3. Munro, The Government of the United States, chapter xxix.

4. Reed, Form and Functions of the United States Government, chapter xi.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Under what four heads may the limitations on state legislatures be grouped? (Guitteau, page
101.)

2. What limitations are imposed upon state legislatures by the republican nature of state government?
(Guitteau, page 102.)

3. In what states are annual legislative sessions held? (Guitteau, page 96.)

4. Why has the legislative session been shortened in some states? (Reed, pages 123-124.)

5. Under what three heads may state legislative power be classified? (Guitteau, page 100.)

6. What is the most important of the powers of the state legislature? (Reed, page 128.)

7. What are the non-legislative duties of the state legislature? (Guitteau, pages 100-101.)

8. What can be said as to the personnel of the state legislature? (Reed, page 126.)

9. What is a "rotten borough"? (Beard, page 521.)

10. Why are state laws frequently of inferior quality? (Munro, page 428.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. A comparison of the upper with the lower house of your state legislature.

2. Gerrymandering in your state.

3. Occupations and professions represented in the membership of your state legislature.

4. The character of legislation recently enacted by your state legislature.

II

5. Development of the law-making department. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, pages
341-342.)

6. General principles of legislative organization. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science,
page 343.)

7. Advantages of the bicameral system. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, page 344.)

8. The function of the legislature. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, page 357.)

9. The lobby. (Reinsch, Readings on American State Government, pages 79-84.)

10. Financial procedure in state legislatures. (Reinsch, Readings on American State Government,
pages 56-61.)

11. The actual work of making a law. (Reed, Form and Functions of American Government, chapter
xii.)

12. Legislative apportionments. (Reinsch, American Legislatures and Legislative Methods, chapter
vii.)

13. Obstacles to intelligent law-making. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, pages 358-359.)

14. Danger of over-legislation in the United States. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science,
page 361.)

15. The relation of the state legislature to local government (Gettell, Introduction to Political
Science, chapter xxii.)

17. Public forces influencing legislation. (Reinsch, American Legislatures and Legislative
Methods, pages 275-298.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

18. Would shortening the length of the legislative session improve the character of legislation
in your state?

19. Should members of the state legislature be residents of the districts from which they are
chosen, or should they be chosen on a state-wide ticket?

20. Should our state legislatures be made unicameral? (See Munro, The Government of the United
States, pages 416-418.)

CHAPTER XLVIII

THE STATE COURTS

A. SOURCES OF LAW

602. ENGLISH COMMON LAW.--One important source of our system of jurisprudence is the English
common law. This law is not found in the enactment of statutes, but consists of court decisions
spread over several centuries. The common law has been defined as "that rule of civil conduct
which originated in the common wisdom and experience of society," and which "in time became
an established custom, and has finally received judicial sanction and affirmance in the decisions
of the courts of last resort." [Footnote: W. C. Robinson, quoted in Government and Politics
in The United States, by W. B. Guitteau, Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1920.] The common law
began its development in early England, and with the settlement of America was transplanted
to this country. Though radically modified by American constitutional and statutory enactments
it still remains the basis of our legal system.

603. EQUITY.--Common law tended to become so stereotyped and so inflexible that in some cases
an application of the law worked an injustice. Very early in English history this situation
gave rise to a new form of jurisprudence called equity. Equity is that legal system which supplements
common and statute law by aiming to secure justice where a strict application of law would
work an injustice. Equity developed in England after the Norman Conquest, and, like the common
law, was transferred to this country in colonial times. A distinct set of chancery or equity
courts was created to administer equity in early America, but at present equity is administered
by the same judges that preside over the regular state law courts. Both equitable and legal
relief may be secured in one suit.

604. STATUTES.--Another important source of law is the statutes enacted by the state legislature.
Most state laws relate to the structure and functions of government, but statutory enactment
is also employed to regulate a few branches of private law, including principally matters which
affect the public at large as well as private individuals. Examples are laws relating to wills
and succession to property, marriage and divorce, partnerships, and corporations.

The scope of the statutes is widening, and during the last half century several fields of the
common law have been covered by statute. Criminal law, criminal procedure, and civil procedure
have been codified in various states. Some states have attempted to codify the entire civil
law, but experience has proved that this may easily render the law too rigid.

605. OTHER SOURCES OF LAW.--The state constitution, the Federal Constitution, and Federal laws
and treaties with foreign countries are other sources of state law.

In summary, the various kinds of law which are enforceable in the state courts may be considered
as forming a pyramid, built upward by the following steps: English common law, equity, state
statutes, the state constitution, Federal statutes, treaties with foreign nations, and the
Federal Constitution.

B. STRUCTURE OF THE COURTS

606. THE JUSTICE OF THE PEACE.--State courts are arranged in a progressive series. At the bottom
of this series is the justice of the peace, who exercises jurisdiction over petty offenses
and over civil cases involving very small amounts. Generally there is a justice of the peace
in each township or other local district. In large cities the civil and criminal jurisdiction
of the justice of the peace is usually divided between two sets of courts: first, the municipal
or city courts, with a minor civil jurisdiction; and second, the police or magistrates' courts
with jurisdiction over petty criminal offenses. The police or magistrates' courts have the
power to make preliminary investigations in case of felonies or serious misdemeanors.

607. THE COUNTY COURTS.--Above the justices of the peace there are, in most states, a number
of county courts, exercising limited jurisdiction. These courts, sometimes called courts of
common pleas or district courts, have jurisdiction over civil cases involving considerable
sums, as well as jurisdiction over most criminal offenses. In addition these courts usually
consider appeals from the judgments of justices of the peace.

608. SUPERIOR OR CIRCUIT COURTS.--In many states there is a superior, circuit, or district
court immediately above the county courts, though in some states this tribunal takes the place
of the county courts. The superior court has jurisdiction over civil cases involving unlimited
sums, as well as unlimited original jurisdiction over criminal matters. It may also try all
cases over which the lower courts have no jurisdiction.

609. THE SUPREME COURT.--At the head of the state judicial system there is a court of last
resort, known in various states by different names. It may be called the court of appeals,
the court of errors and appeals, or simply the supreme court. Practically all of the cases
coming before this court are appealed from the lower courts. Ordinarily it deals with points
of law rather than of fact.

610. SPECIAL COURTS.--In addition to the regular state courts there are sometimes special tribunals
for special purposes. Examples of such courts are the probate or surrogates' courts for the
settlement of the estates of deceased persons; children's courts for the treatment of cases
involving children; courts of domestic relations; and courts of claims for hearing claims against
the state.

611. STATE JUDGES.--In almost all of the states judges are chosen by popular vote, though in
half a dozen states the choice of these officials still lies with the legislature or with the
Governor, or with both acting jointly. Judges of the higher state courts are generally chosen
for a long period of time, even for life, while the judges of the lower courts are chosen for
relatively short periods. Salaries vary from practically nothing but fee money for some justices
of the peace to an average of $7000 a year for justices of the supreme court. The qualifications
imposed upon judges include a minimum age of 25 to 35 years, and citizenship for a varying
period of years. Another common requirement is residence within the state, or even residence
within the judicial district. For judges of the higher courts it is the custom to demand membership
in the legal profession. Judges may be removed by impeachment, and, in a few states, by use
of the Recall.

612. OTHER COURT OFFICIALS.--The district or prosecuting attorney is an important official.
Generally he is chosen by the voters of the county, though in some instances he is elected
from larger areas. The district attorney represents the state in all criminal cases, and conducts
the prosecution. This officer conducts a preliminary investigation into crimes and determines
whether or not a prosecution should be instituted. If the decision is in the affirmative, he
presents the case to the grand jury. If the grand jury returns an indictment, that is, if it
demands that the accused be held for trial, the prosecuting attorney conducts the prosecution
at the ensuing trial.

The clerk, or recording officer, is generally appointed by the court, though he may be elected
by popular vote. The constable or sheriff is elected by popular vote. The clerk and the constable
are charged with the execution of all orders, judgments, and decrees of the court.

C. POWERS AND PROCEDURE

613. RELATION OF STATE TO FEDERAL COURTS.--The framework of American government includes a
dual system of courts, the Federal courts and the state courts. The jurisdiction of the Federal
courts is specifically defined by the Federal Constitution, while the state courts have a jurisdiction
which is limited only by the prohibitions of the state and Federal Constitutions. The two systems
of courts are independent in the exercise of their respective powers, and have separate jurisdictions.
In some cases, however, the state courts have a concurrent jurisdiction with the Federal courts,
and a litigant has a choice of tribunals before which to bring suit. In most suits the decision
of the state supreme court is final, but cases involving Federal law may be appealed for final
decision to the Supreme Court of the United States.

614. POWER TO DECLARE STATE STATUTES UNCONSTITUTIONAL.--Just as the Federal courts are the
final interpreters of all domestic law, so the state courts have the power to pass upon the
constitutionality of statutes enacted either by the state legislature or by local law- making
bodies. The state constitution is the fundamental law of the state, and it is the duty of the
state courts to see that all state and local legislative acts conform to this fundamental law.

615. POWER OVER EXECUTIVE OFFICIALS.--Through their power to pass upon the legality of executive
acts, the state courts exercise some degree of control over executive officials. If a state
governor were illegally to remove an official from office, for example, the courts could reinstate
the latter.

The state courts also have the power to issue writs of mandamus and injunction. The former
may be used, under certain circumstances, to compel an executive officer to perform his duty;
the latter writ may be used to prevent either state officials or private individuals from committing
illegal acts.

616. CIVIL JURISDICTION.--The jurisdiction of the state courts is either civil or criminal.

The purpose of civil law is to protect the rights of the individual and to redress his wrongs.
The individual rights which are the concern of civil law fall under three heads: First, the
right of personal security, including the right of protection against violence; second, the
right of personal liberty, including the rights set forth in the bill of rights of the state
constitution; third, the rights of property, including the right to acquire and hold property,
and the right to demand fulfilment of contracts made under state law.

617. CIVIL PROCEDURE.--If an individual believes that his rights have been violated, he, as
plaintiff, is entitled to file a complaint with the proper court. The sheriff or constable
then summons the defendant to appear in court, and the clerk of the court issues a summons
or subpoena to all witnesses which either party to the suit desires to have testify. Generally
either party may demand a trial by jury. Both plaintiff and defendant are ordinarily represented
by counsel which present the different sides of the case to the judge and jury. The judge decides
what evidence may be properly presented to the jury. After the closing argument of the plaintiff's
counsel, the judge instructs the jury on the legal points involved in the case. The jury then
retire and attempt to reach an unanimous decision. If able so to agree, they return a verdict
for either plaintiff or defendant, and after the verdict has been accepted by the court, judgment
is rendered. If the jurors have been unable to come to an unanimous decision, the case is ordinarily
tried with another jury, though in a few states an unanimous verdict in civil cases is not
required.

If the decision of the court is accepted as final, the judgment is enforced. On the other hand,
the dissatisfied party may appeal the case to the next higher court on the ground that the
verdict was contrary to the weight of evidence, or because of errors of law committed by the
judge. Under certain circumstances the judge who tries the case may be induced to grant a new
trial.

618. CRIMINAL JURISDICTION.--The purpose of criminal law is to punish those who have committed
public wrongs, i.e. wrongs against the state or community. Crimes are of two types: first,
felonies, including such grave offences as murder, arson, burglary, and larceny; and second,
misdemeanors, including such lesser offenses as bribery, knowingly receiving stolen goods,
libel, assault and battery, and disturbance of the peace. Usually felonies are punished either
by death, or by a long prison sentence. Misdemeanors are ordinarily punished by fines or by
imprisonment for a short term.

619. CRIMINAL PROCEDURE.--A criminal proceeding usually begins with the arrest of the accused
person. Generally, though not always, arrest is in pursuance of a warrant. As soon after arrest
as possible, the accused is brought before a magistrate for a preliminary examination. If the
examining magistrate finds that there is probable cause for holding him for trial, the accused
is committed to jail to await trial. Unless the charge is murder, however, the defendant may
be released on bail.

If the charge is a serious one, indictment by the grand jury is the next step. If this jury
decides that the evidence is insufficient, the charge is dismissed and the prisoner released.
The grand jury meets in secret, and hears only the charges against the accused. These are generally
presented by the prosecuting attorney. After the defendant is indicted, the prisoner is brought
into court and allowed to plead. If he pleads guilty, the judge may forthwith impose sentence
and there is no trial. If the plea is "not guilty," a trial is arranged, a jury of twelve men
impanelled, and the trial begins.

The case is opened by the prosecuting attorney, since it is the duty of the state to assume
the defendant innocent until he is proved guilty. The prosecuting attorney presents his witnesses,
each of which the defendant's attorney may cross-examine, and in turn allows the defendant's
attorney to present the defense. The prisoner is not questioned at any stage in the trial,
unless he is willing to take the stand as a witness in his own behalf.

After the prosecuting attorney and the defendant's counsel have completed their case, the judge
sums up the evidence brought out by each side, and instructs the jury as to the law involved.
The jury then retire and attempt to reach a verdict. Generally such a verdict must be unanimous,
and if this cannot be secured, the jury is dismissed and the case is held for re-trial. If
the verdict is "not guilty," the prisoner is discharged; if he is found guilty, sentence is
imposed by the court, either immediately or at some future date. [Footnote: For a discussion
of the legal aspects of the problem of crime, see Chapter XXI.]

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What is meant by the term "common law"?

2. Define equity. How did it arise?

3. What is the importance of the statutes as a source of state law?

4. What are some other sources of law?

5. Describe the work of the justice of the peace.

6. What is the jurisdiction of the county courts?

7. What is the chief function of the state supreme court?

8. Name some special state courts.

9. What is the function of the district attorney?

10. What is the relation of state to Federal courts?

11. Discuss the chief powers of state courts.

12. What is the scope of the civil jurisdiction of the state courts?

13. Describe a civil trial.

14. What are the two types of crimes?

15. Outline the steps in a criminal trial.

2. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter xi.

3. Munro, The Government of the United States, chapter xxxiv.

4. Reed, Form and Function of American Government, chapter xiii.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Define common law. (Guitteau, page 115.)

2. What is the relation of the old Privy Council to the origin of English common law? (Guitteau,
page 116.)

3. What is a tort? (Beard, pages 558-559.)

4. What is the relation of the state judiciary to the other departments of state government?
(Reed, page 160.)

5. To what extent do the Federal courts interfere with the decisions of the state courts? (Munro,
page 492.)

6. By what three methods may judges be chosen? (Beard, page 550.)

7. Name some states in which judges are not chosen by the people. How are judges chosen in
these states? (Beard, page 550.)

8. Compare the salaries of American judges with the salaries of European judges. (Beard, page 552.)

9. By what three methods may judges be removed? (Munro, pages 496-497)

10. In what state has the codification of the civil code been most successful? (Reed, page 168.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Provisions in your state constitution with respect to the state judiciary.

2. The choice of judges in your state.

3. Characteristics of a good judge.

4. The actual conduct of a civil or criminal trial in a near-by court.

5. Delay in legal procedure in your state. (Consult a friendly attorney.)

6. Methods of removing judges in your state.

II

7. The evolution of state justice. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, page 384.)

8. Function of the state court. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, page 387.)

9. Methods of choosing judges in the various states. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science,
page 388.)

10. Procedure in the state courts. (Kimball, State and Municipal Government in the United States,
chapter xv.)

11. The system of appeals in state courts. (Reinsch, Readings on American State Government,
pages 150-158.)

12. Relation of judicial inefficiency to crime. (Reinsch, Readings on American State Government,
pages 181-198.)

15. Legal claims against the state. (Reinch, Readings on American State Government, pages 168-172.)

16. Necessity of judicial independence. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, page 391.)

17. The significance of lawyers in the United States. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science,
page 390.)

18. A summary of the defects of the State judiciary. (Bryce, The American Commonwealth, vol.
i, chapter xlii.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

19. Should a jury sitting in a criminal trial be required to render an unanimous verdict or
simply a majority decision?

20. Should state judges be chosen directly by the people, or selected by the state legislature,
or appointed by the Governor?

21. Should judges be subject to the Recall?

22. Should the entire civil law of your state be codified?

23. Advantages and disadvantages of separate administrative courts. (See Gettell, Readings
in Political Science, pages 392-393.)

CHAPTER XLIX

MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT

A. DEVELOPMENT OF THE AMERICAN MUNICIPALITY [Footnote: For an extended account of American
municipal development, see Fairlie's Municipal Administration. An excellent summary of Fairlie
is found in Guitteau's Government and Politics in the United States, Houghton Mifflin Co.,
Boston, 1920.]

620. RAPID GROWTH OF AMERICAN CITIES.--A striking feature of American life is the rapidity
with which our cities have grown. At the time of Washington's first inauguration, the United
States were so predominantly rural that only about one thirtieth of our population was found
in the cities. With the progress of the Industrial Revolution came an unprecedented development
of transportation and the factory system. More and more people made their homes in the cities,
until in 1890 approximately a third of the people of the United States were living in cities.
According to the census of 1920 more than half of our population is concentrated in towns and
cities.

621. THE AMERICAN CITY BEFORE THE REVOLUTION.--New York, now the largest American city, is
also the oldest, having received its charter in 1686. Between that date and the outbreak of
the Revolution, nineteen other municipalities received charters. The colonial cities modelled
their organization after the English borough. Practically all authority was vested in a council,
consisting of a mayor, recorder, aldermen, and councilmen, acting as a single body. The mayor
was either appointed by the Governor, or elected by the council. The chief duty of the mayor
was to preside over the council and execute its ordinances.

622. THE AMERICAN CITY, 1775-1825.--Several important changes in the character of the American
city took place in the half century which followed the Declaration of Independence.

The power to grant charters to cities was transferred from the Governor to the state legislature.
This was the natural outcome of an increasing suspicion of the executive authority, and a corresponding
increase of faith in the state legislature. Before the end of this period the city came definitely
under the control of the state legislature. In the absence of constitutional restrictions,
the legislature has continued to exercise an almost dictatorial control over the cities within
its borders.

Also typical of this period was the subordination of city affairs to state and national politics.

623. THE AMERICAN CITY, 1825-1850.--During this period a number of new cities sprang into prominence.
Immigration was increasing, and the industrialization of the country was crowding the population
into larger and larger units.

New York, Boston, St. Louis, and other cities adopted the two- chambered-council plan.

The passion for democratic control swept away the property qualifications prescribed by some
of the early city charters, and practically attained universal manhood suffrage. The demand
for popular control likewise led to the present practice of choosing the mayor by popular vote,
the older methods of State appointment or council election being discarded.

624. THE AMERICAN CITY, 1850-1875.--Many pressing municipal problems appeared in this period.
The functions of the American city became more numerous and more complex. Police and fire systems
were installed; waterworks, sewer systems, and city parks were provided; education and charitable
relief were developed.

Under the stress of administering these additional functions, cities applied more and more
frequently to the state legislature for special legislation granting them additional powers.
State legislatures tended to pass such special acts freely, with the result that corrupt and
pernicious legislation became common in many states. Special interests engaged in lobbying,
bribery, and log-rolling to secure special favors from legislatures. Public service corporations
often secured valuable franchises on terms that did not adequately protect the public interest.

625. MUNICIPAL REFORM.--The period since 1875 and especially since 1900 has been marked by
a strong tendency to reform municipal government.

The abuse of power by the city council in many instances forfeited the respect with which the
public had formerly regarded that body. The power to appoint various city officials was transferred
from the council to the voters, and many of the functions formerly exercised by the council
were entrusted to newly created municipal boards.

In about half the states constitutional provisions now forbid the legislature to pass special
acts concerning municipalities. In other states the constitution enumerates a large number
of subjects with regard to which the legislature cannot enact special legislation. In some
states the cities of the state are classified into two or more groups, according to population;
the legislature is compelled to designate the group or groups to which statutes are to apply.
In about a dozen states certain types of cities are allowed to frame and amend their own charters,
provided that such acts are not inconsistent with the constitution and statutes of the state.

Municipal civil service reform is of increasing importance, more than 200 American cities having
sanctioned it in some form. As applied to municipal affairs the merit system includes a municipal
commission, appointed by the mayor; a system of competitive examinations designed to test character
and capacity; a plan for requiring the appointing officer in each department of city government
to select his subordinates from an eligible list; a method of removing officials; and sometimes
a system of pensioning employees who have grown old in the service.

The movement for popular control has been closely associated with municipal development. The
tendency to shorten the ballot, the holding of municipal elections at a different time than
state and national elections, and the concentration of administrative officers under a responsible
appointing head, are steps in this direction. In many states the Direct Primary has been intimately
associated with municipal development. The Initiative, Referendum, and Recall have been adopted
in a large number of cities, especially where the mayor- council plan has been abandoned for
the commission form of government.

B. MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION

626. THE THREE TYPES OF CITY GOVERNMENT.--The three types of city government in the United
States are the mayor-council plan, the commission plan, and the city manager plan. [Footnote:
For a description of the commission and city manager plans of city government, see Chapter
XXXVI.] The commission plan is a new form of city government which has been designed to overcome
the defects of the old mayor-council plan, while the city manager plan is a modification of
the commission plan. Of recent years both the commission plan and the city manager plan have
spread rapidly, but it is still true that few American cities of any appreciable size have
adopted either of these two plans. The old mayor-council plan prevails in most American cities,
and for this reason the remainder of this chapter will be devoted to a description of this
form of government.

627. THE CITY COUNCIL: ORGANIZATION.--Usually the city council is a single-chambered body,
though some of the larger cities have from time to time experimented with a double-chambered
council. In some cities councilmen are chosen on a general ticket, but in most cases the council
consists of one member from each ward or district into which the city is divided. Councilmen
must be voters in the city in which they serve, and by custom they are generally required to
be residents of the ward from which they are chosen. The terms of councilmen vary from one
to four years, two years being the average term. In the smaller cities councilmen are usually
unpaid, but in the larger municipalities they receive a stated salary.

628. THE CITY COUNCIL: POWERS.--The typical American city is subservient to the state legislature,
the powers of city government being enumerated in a charter received from the legislature.
These enumerated powers have been rather narrowly interpreted by the courts.

The council enjoys a measure of police power, which it may invoke to protect the health and
to further the well-being of the city's inhabitants. The exercise of this police power, however,
must not conflict with state law.

The council has the power to levy taxes to defray expenses incurred in performing municipal
functions. State constitutions and legislatures limit this power rather narrowly, however.
Subject to a similar limitation is the council's power to raise money through the issue of bonds.

City councils may act as the agents of the state government in matters affecting education
and charitable relief.

629. THE CITY COUNCIL: PROCEDURE.--The city council meets periodically, generally weekly or
bi-weekly. It determines its own rules of procedure and keeps a journal. The committee system
is used for the dispatch of business. Ordinances may be proposed by any member of the council.
After being introduced, ordinances are read by title and are referred to the proper committee.
A second and third reading at subsequent meetings are required. If the ordinance is approved
by a majority of the council, it is signed by the presiding officer, and sent to the mayor.
In many cities the mayor may veto any ordinance passed by the council. In case of a veto the
measure becomes law only if passed by a two thirds--in some cities three fourths or four fifths--vote
of the council. In those cities where the mayor has no veto power, the ordinance goes into
effect immediately upon being passed by the council.

630. THE MAYOR.--In all cities where the mayor-council plan of government prevails, the chief
executive officer is the mayor or chief magistrate. This officer is usually elected by popular
vote, for a term varying from one to four years. Usually the term is two years, though in New
England a one-year term is more common. The mayor is paid a salary which ranges from a few
hundred dollars in the smaller cities to several thousands of dollars in a number of the larger
municipalities.

631. THE MAYOR AND THE COUNCIL.--It is the duty of the mayor to communicate at least once a
year to the city council a general statement of the administration and financial condition
of the city. The mayor may also recommend to the city council, in his annual message or otherwise,
the passage of ordinances which he considers needful. In smaller cities, and in a few of the
larger municipalities, the mayor presides over the council and has a casting vote in case of
a tie, but in most of the larger cities he is not a member of the council. In most cities he
has the veto power. In many of the more recent city charters, the mayor is given the power
to veto separate items in an appropriation bill, while approving the remainder of the measure,
just as some Governors may veto separate items in appropriations bills enacted by the state
legislature.

632. ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.--The mayor stands at the head of the city administration,
but the extent of his control varies from city to city. In the last half century the decline
in popular favor of the city council has been accompanied by a growing tendency to enlarge
the administrative powers of the mayor. In many of the smaller cities the mayor is still little
more than a presiding officer of the council. In such cities subordinate executive officials
are usually chosen by popular vote or are appointed by the council. In other cities the mayor
may appoint the chief administrative officials, subject to the consent of the council. In still
other cities, including many of the larger municipalities, the mayor may both appoint and remove
the heads of the executive departments, without interference on the part of the council.

633. OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS.--Such highly complex and important matters as health,
education, parks, charities, police, fire protection, and public works are the concern of the
numerous administrative officials of the city. Administrative work is carried on by two methods,
first, the board system, in which such concerns as schools, public health, and police are managed
by boards composed of members of the city council; and second, single commissioners, who are
more or less under the control of the mayor. The board system has proved less efficient than
the single commissioner plan, and accordingly there is a tendency to abandon the former for
the latter plan.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. Describe the rapid growth of the American city.

2. What were the characteristics of the city in colonial times?

3. What were the distinguishing features of the American city between 1775 and 1825?

4. What distinguishes municipal development between 1825 and 1850?

5. What problems became prominent in municipal development between 1850 and 1875?

6. Outline the movement for municipal reform.

7. What are the three types of municipal government?

8. Describe the organization of the city council.

9. What are the chief powers of the city council?

10. Outline the making of an ordinance.

11. Discuss the term and salary of the mayor.

12. What is the relation of the mayor to the council?

13. What are the chief administrative duties of the mayor?

14. Name some other administrative officers.

2. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United Stairs, chapter iv.

3. Munro, The Government of the United States, chapter xlii.

4. Reed, Form and Functions of American Government, chapter xvi

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Define a city. (Guitteau, page 38.)

2. What is the English prototype of the American city? (Guitteau, page 39.)

3. Under what three heads may the powers of the mayor be grouped? (Beard, page 591.)

4. To what extent has the city council been shorn of its power? (Beard, pages 588-590.)

5. What is the meaning of the phrase "municipal home rule"? (Guitteau, page 45.)

6. What is meant by municipal democracy? (Beard, pages 597-598.)

7. What is the Des Moines plan of city government? (Guitteau, page 46.)

8. Describe briefly the organization of the government of New York. (Reed, pages 197-198.)

9. Summarize the functions of the American municipality. (Munro, pages 602-615.)

10. What is the extent of municipal ownership in the United States? (Munro, page 616.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. History of your municipality.

2. Present organization of your municipal government

3. The chief functions of your municipality.

4. Relation of your municipality to the state legislature.

5. Legislative power in your municipality.

6. The franchise-granting power in your municipality.

II

7. The English borough. (Fairlie, Municipal Administration, chapter iv.)

8. Historical development of the American city. (Munro, The Government of the United States,
chapter xl; Kimball, State and Municipal Government in the United States, chapter xx.)

9. Political consequences of city growth. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, page 433.)

10. Relation of city life to democracy. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, page 436.)

11. Evolution of municipal organization. (Munro, The Government of American Cities, chapter i.)

12. Relation of the municipality to the state. (Munro, The Government of American Cities, chapter
ii.)

13. The voters of the city. (Munro, The Government of American Cities, chapter iii.)

14. The mayor. (Munro, The Government of American Cities, chapter ix; Fairlie, Municipal Administration,
chapter xix.)

15. The city council. (Munro, The Government of American Cities, chapter viii; Fairlie, Municipal
Administration, chapter xvii.)

16. Municipal administrative offices. (Munro, The Government of American Cities, chapter x;
Fairlie, Municipal Administration, chapter xviii.)

17. The needs of city government. (Gettell, Readings in Political Science, pages 441-442.)

18. The municipal government in action. (Bryce, The American Commonwealth, vol. i, chapter li.)

19. Municipal functions. (Munro, The Government of the United States, chapter xlii; James,
Local Government in the United States, chapter vii.)

20. Municipal finances. (Beard, American City Government, chapter v.)

21. The franchise problem. (Beard, American City Government, chapter vii.)

22. Municipal ownership as a political problem. (Beard, American City Government, chapter viii.)

23. The commission plan of municipal government. (Munro, The Government of the United States,
chapter xliii; see also any other standard text on American government.)

24. Municipal ownership of public utilities in your community.

26. Are the municipalities of your state too narrowly restricted by the state constitution
and the state legislature?

27. The solution of the franchise problem.

28.

CHAPTER L

RURAL LOCAL GOVERNMENT

634. TYPES OF RURAL LOCAL GOVERNMENT.--Rural local governments in the United States vary widely
as between different sections of the country, but in general they are divisible into three
types. These are:

(a) the town type, so common in New England;

(b) the county type, found chiefly in the South, the Southwest, and the Far West; and

(c) the mixed type of the Middle, Central, and Northwestern states. These three general types
will be discussed in the order named.

A. THE TOWN TYPE

635. NATURE OF THE TOWN.--The basis of rural local government in New England is the town. [Footnote:
The county exists in New England as an aggregation of towns. The county has acquired other
functions, but it is still primarily a judicial district.] In general the New England town
is an irregularly shaped area, varying in size from twenty to forty-five square miles. The
area comprising the typical town is primarily rural, and generally contains one or more villages.
Although the town is primarily a rural unit, the villages within its bounds may be so populous
as to be classed as cities. Yet these populous communities may, as in the case of Brookline,
Massachusetts, retain the town government. Other New England cities, such as New Haven and
Hartford, Connecticut, have continued the town organization separate from the city government.

636. ORIGIN OF THE TOWN.--Some authorities believe that the town type of rural local government
can be traced back through English history to the early Teutonic tribes. Whether or not this
is true, it is certain that the principle is an ancient one, and that when New England was
first settled, the colonists grouped together in small compact communities, or towns, instead
of scattering over larger areas.

637. WHY TOWN GOVERNMENT DEVELOPED IN NEW ENGLAND.--Several factors are responsible for the
tendency of the settlers of early New England to draw together in towns. From the economic
point of view, the barren nature of the soil rendered extensive farms impracticable, while,
on the other hand, the opportunities for fishing and commerce encouraged small, compact settlements
along the coast. The hostility of many of the New England Indians also discouraged sparse settlements
and obliged the people to settle in close formation. Lastly, many of the New England colonists
came to the New World as groups or communities which in their European homes had pivoted about
a common church; in New England these people naturally preferred to live very near one another.

638. TOWN GOVERNMENT.--The government of the New England town is vested in a town meeting,
which consists of an annual session of the voters of the town. At this meeting the voters enact
laws governing such local matters as town finance, schools, police, and highways. A second
important function of the town meeting is to choose the town officers, including the selectmen,
[Footnote: In Rhode Island the selectmen are known as the council.] the town clerk, treasurer,
constable, and others. The chief executive officers are the selectmen, varying in number from
three to nine, and generally chosen for the term of one year. The selectmen have general charge
of town affairs, and act under authority conferred by statute or by the town meeting. The town
clerk keeps the records, the treasurer has charge of the funds of the town and sometimes audits
accounts, while the constable keeps the peace of the town, serves writs, and collects local
taxes. In addition there are a number of minor officials, such as tax assessors, pound-keepers,
guardians of the poor, highway officials, and library trustees.

B. THE COUNTY TYPE

639. WHY COUNTY GOVERNMENT DEVELOPED IN THE SOUTH.--The system of county government became
as firmly intrenched in the Southern colonies as did the concept of the town in early New England.
Four factors operated to discourage town government, and to encourage county government, in
the South. First, the Southern colonists did not come in small family groups, as did the New
Englanders, but rather as individuals and from different classes of society. Second, the Indians
of the South were either weak or peaceful, so that fear of Indian attack did not oblige the
colonists to congregate in small, compact communities. Third, the climate and soil of the South
encouraged a plantation system which resulted in a sparse rather than in a compact population.
Fourth, the aristocratic type of society developing from the plantation and slave system prevented
the rise of the democratic town meeting.

640. GOVERNMENT OF THE SOUTHERN COUNTY.--Though county government is also found in the Southwest
and Far West, it is seen in its purest form in the South. Here the county was originally a
judicial district, or sometimes also a financial district to facilitate the collection of taxes.
The functions of the county have gradually increased until such local affairs as schools, jails,
poorhouses, and the maintenance of roads and bridges are concerns of the Southern county. The
chief administrative authority in the county is either the county court, or a small board of
commissioners. In either case the administrative authority is chosen by popular vote. In addition
there are a number of minor officers such as the treasurer, tax assessor, and recorder, all
of them chosen by popular vote for terms varying from one to four years.

641. GOVERNMENT OF THE FAR WESTERN COUNTY.--In the Far West, likewise, the most important unit
of rural local government is the county. The county is governed by a board, usually consisting
of three commissioners. In general the officers of the Far Western county resemble those in
the central states. (See Section 644.)

C. THE MIXED TYPE [Footnote: Sometimes called the township-county system.]

642. ORIGIN OF THE MIXED TYPE.--The mixed type of rural local government is a hybrid, the result
of the incomplete fusion of the town type with the county type. The northern parts of the Central
states were settled largely by immigrants from New England, while the southern portions of
the Middle West were settled by pioneers from Pennsylvania and the states south of the Ohio
River. The New England immigrants were used to town government, and endeavored to perpetuate
it in their new home; the settlers from the South preferred the county form of government,
and sought its adoption in their new homes. The result was a compromise, some functions of
rural local government being assigned to the county and some to the township.

643. THE TWO SUB-TYPES.--In the fusion of the town and county types of government the county
system tended to predominate over the town or township form of government when settlers from
the South were in the majority. In the northern section of the country, on the other hand,
the compromise form tended to include a majority of the features of the town type. The result
was the formulation of two sub-types.

The first of these may be called the Pennsylvania sub-type, so named because it originated
in Pennsylvania, and then spread, with modifications, to Ohio, Indiana, Kansas, Missouri, and
other states. In these states the town or township authority is subordinated to the county
government. There is no town meeting.

The New York sub-type exists in typical form in New York, but is also found in New Jersey,
Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, the Dakotas, and other states. The town meeting is
found in these states, and in five of them the townships are represented on the county board.

644. THE NEW YORK SUB-TYPE.--In states possessing the New York sub- type of rural local government,
the town meeting is still important. This meeting is similar to the New England town meeting,
though it exercises less authority. All the legal voters of the township are qualified to take
part in this meeting, which is held annually and on special occasions. At this meeting are
chosen township officers for the following year. The most important of these are the supervisor,
clerk, treasurer, assessor, and a varying number of constables and justices of the peace. In
addition to electing these and other officers, the town meeting enacts legislation with regard
to such local matters as bridges, roads, and schools.

In some of the Central states general executive authority over township affairs is vested in
a township board, while in other states administrative authority is divided between a township
board of from three to eleven members, and a supervisor or trustee. Besides these officials,
there are a number of minor officers, including a clerk, a treasurer, an assessor, overseers
of the poor, constables, and justices of the peace.

The county board continues to exist under the New York plan, but it is far less important than
under the Pennsylvania sub-type. The functions of the county board are similar in these two
sub-types.

645. THE PENNSYLVANIA SUB-TYPE.--In those states in which the Pennsylvania sub-type of rural
local government prevails, general control of government is vested in a county board. This
board is composed of three commissioners, who are elected by the voters of the county. In all
of the Central states the county board possesses numerous powers, but the powers of the board
are greater under the Pennsylvania than under the New York sub-type. Under the former plan
the county board exercised four groups of powers: First, the levying of taxes and the appropriation
of local funds; second, the maintenance of roads; third, poor-relief; and fourth, the supervision
of local elections.

Besides the members of the county board there are a number of other county officials. The chief
executive officer of the county court is the sheriff. The prosecuting attorney is an elective
official, whose duty it is to conduct criminal prosecutions, and to act as the legal agent
of the county. The treasurer has charge of county funds, and sometimes supervises the collection
of taxes. He is elected by the people, generally for a two-year term. The clerk or auditor
is an important county officer, as is the surveyor, the county superintendent of schools, and
the recorder or register of deeds.

646. HOME RULE FOR COUNTIES.--Generally, county authorities are narrowly limited by the state
constitution and state statutes. This has always resulted in numerous appeals to the legislature
for special legislation, and has lately given rise to a demand for home rule for counties.
In the effort to reduce the pressure for special laws in the legislature, the Michigan constitution
of 1908 provided for a measure of home rule for counties. The legislature is authorized to
confer legislative powers on the county boards, which may pass laws and ordinances relative
to purely local affairs, provided such enactments do not conflict with state law, and provided,
further, that such enactments do not interfere with the local affairs of any township, incorporated
city, or village within the limits of the county. Such laws may be vetoed by the Governor,
but may be passed over his veto by a two-thirds vote of the county board. Another step toward
home rule was taken when in 1911 California by constitutional amendment empowered counties
to frame their own charters, and, on securing popular approval, to put the same into effect.
However, the charter thus framed and approved must first be sanctioned by the state legislature.

QUESTIONS ON THE TEXT

1. What are the three types of rural local government?

2. Discuss the nature of the town.

3. What is the origin of the town?

4. How is the town governed?

5. Why did county government develop in the rural South?

6. Outline the government of the southern county.

7. How did the mixed type of rural local government originate?

8. What two sub-types are included under the mixed type of rural local government?

9. Compare briefly these two sub-types.

10. Discuss the nature of the movement to permit home rule to counties.

2. Guitteau, Government and Politics in the United States, chapter ii.

3. Munro, The Government of the United States, chapter xxxvii.

4. Reed, Form and Functions of American Government, chapter xviii.

QUESTIONS ON THE REQUIRED READINGS

1. Summarize the relation of local institutions to state government. (Guitteau, page 15.)

2. What factors are responsible for the decline of the town meeting in the Middle West? (Beard,
page 651.)

3. Describe the early English county. (Guitteau, page 18.)

4. What are the chief divisions of the county in the southern and western parts of the United
States? (Reed, pages 222-223.)

5. What are the sources of county government? (Reed, page 210.)

6. What is a "town chairman"? (Reed, page 222.)

7. What are the two types of county boards? (Beard, pages 640-641.)

8. What is a parish? (Guitteau, page 21.)

9. Why is there a growing demand that local institutions be placed under the supervision of
the state government? (Beard, pages 654-655.)

10. What are the merits and defects of autonomy for rural local governments? (Munro, pages
544-545.)

TOPICS FOR INVESTIGATION AND REPORT

I

1. Origin of local government in your section.

2. Development of rural local government in your community, or in some adjacent community.

3. The work of the tax assessor in rural local government.

4. Investigate the powers and duties of any other county, town, or township officer.

II

5. Origin and development of rural local government in the United States. (James, Local Government
in the United States, chapter ii; Kimball, State and Municipal Government in the United States,
chapter xvi.)

6. The New England town. (Fairlie, Local Government in Counties, Towns and Villages, pages
141-146.)

7. Township government. (Fairlie, Local Government in Counties, Towns and Villages, pages 164-185.)

8. General nature of county government. (Munro, The Government of the United States, chapter
xxxviii.)

9. The organization of county government. (James, Local Government in the United States, chapter
iii; Maxey, County Administration.)

10. Financial administration in counties. (Maxey, County Administration.)

12. The administration of highways in counties. (Maxey, County Administration.)

13. Charitable and correctional institutions in the county. (Maxey, County Administration.)

14. Politics in rural local government. (Beard, American Government and Politics, chapter XXX.)

15. County home rule. (Gilbertson, The County, chapter xv.)

16. City and county consolidation. (Maxey, County Administration.)

17. Rural local government in England. (Reed, Form and Functions of American Government, chapter
xvii.)

19. Rural local government in France. (James, Local Government in the United States, chapter i.)

FOR CLASSROOM DISCUSSION

20. The relative merits of the town, county, and mixed type of rural local government.

21. The problem of efficiency in rural local government in your state.

22. The problem of responsibility in rural local government in your state.

23. Should rural local governments in your state be allowed a greater measure of home rule?

BIBLIOGRAPHY

The following list contains all of the references that are mentioned in the text, either as
required reading, or as the basis for suggested topic work. Special mention may be made here
of Williamson's Readings in American Democracy, prepared as a companion volume to the text,
and published in 1922 by D. C. Heath & Co.

In harmony with the general arrangement of the text material, the references in this list have
been grouped under the folio wing heads: Historical, Economic, Social, and Political.

An asterisk has been placed before references that should prove of value to those who desire
to build up a small working library on problems in American democracy. Works of special importance
are preceded by a double asterisk.

HISTORICAL

Adams, Ephraim D. The Power of Ideals in American History. Yale University Press, New Haven. 1913.

** Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science. Philadelphia.

Becker, Carl Lotus. Beginnings of the American People. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1915.

* Cheyney, Edward P. An Introduction to the Industrial and Social History of England. Macmillan,
New York. 1901.

Crawford, Mary Caroline. Social Life in Old New England. Little, Brown Co., Boston. 1914.

* Fiske, John. The Critical Period of American History. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1888.

Hart, Albert Bushnell. Social and Economic Forces in American History.

Huntington, Ellsworth. Civilization and Climate. Yale University Press, New Haven. 1915.

Huntington, Ellsworth, and S. W. Gushing. Principles of Human Geography. John Wiley and Sons,
New York. 1921.

** International Encyclopedia. Second edition. Dodd Mead & Co., New York. 1916.

** Lessons in Community and National Life, Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education.
Series A, B, and C, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 1918.

McLaughlin, Andrew C. Steps in the Development of American Democracy. The Abingdon Press, New
York. 1920.

------. The Confederation and the Constitution. Harper and Bros, New York. 1905.

Osgood, Herbert L. The American Colonies in the Seventeenth Century, 3 vols. Macmillan, New
York. 1904.

Semple, Ellen C. American History and its Geographic Conditions. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston.
1903.

Speare, Morris E., and W. B. Norris. World War Issues and Ideals. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1918.

** Turner, Frederick J. The Frontier in American History. Henry Holt and Co., New York. 1920.

West, Willis M. The War and the New Age. Allyn and Bacon, Boston. 1919.

White, Albert Beebe. The Making of the English Constitution. Putnam, New York. 1908.

ECONOMIC

Adams, Henry C. Description of Industry. Henry Holt & Co., New York. 1918.

Ashley, Percy. Modern Tariff History. Button and Co., New York. 1911.

*Bishop, Avard L., and A. G. Keller. Industry and Trade. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1918.

Bloomfield, Daniel. Selected Articles on Modern Industrial Movements H. W. Wilson Co., New
York. 1919.

------. Selected Articles on Problems of Labor. H. W. Wilson Co., New York. 1920.

** Bogart, Ernest Ludlow. The Economic History of the United States. Longmans, Green and Co.,
New York. 1912.

Bogart, Ernest Ludlow, and C. M. Thompson. Readings in the Economic History of the United States.
Longmans, Green and Co., New York. 1917.

Brasol, Boris L. Socialism Versus Civilization. Chas. Scribner's Sons, New York. 1920.

Brooks, John Graham. American Syndicalism: the I. W. W. Macmillan, New York. 1913.

Bruce, Philip A. Economic History of Virginia in the Seventeenth Century. 2 Vols. Macmillan,
New York. 1907.

Bullock, Charles J. Selected Readings in Economics. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1907.

------. Selected Readings in Public Finance. 2d edition. Ginn and Co, Boston. 1920.

------. The Elements of Economics. Silver, Burdett and Co., Boston. 1919.

Burritt, Arthur W., assisted by Dennison, Gay and others. Profit Sharing, its Principles and
Practice. Harper and Bros., New York. 1918.

Callender, Guy S. Selections from the Economic History of the United States. Ginn and Co.,
Boston. 1909.

* Carlton, Frank T. History and Problems of Organized Labor. D. C. Heath and Co., Boston. 1911.

------. Organized Labor in American History. Appleton, New York. 1920.

** Carver, Thomas Nixon. Elementary Economics. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1920.

------. Essays in Social Justice. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Mass. 1915.

------. Principles of Rural Economics. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1911.

Clark, John Bates. Social Justice Without Socialism. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1914.

** Coman, Katharine. The Industrial History of the United States. Macmillan, New York. 1917.
Commons, John R. Trade Unionism and Labor Problems. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1905.

Coulter, John L. Coöperation Among Farmers. Sturgis and Walton, New York. 1919.

Current History Magazine, September, 1920. New York Times, New York.

Dewey, Davis R. Financial History of the United States. Longmans, Green and Co., New York. 1915.

Dixon, Frank H., and J. H. Parmelee. War Administration of the Railways in the United States
and Great Britain. Oxford University Press. Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

**Dryer, Charles R. Elementary Economic Geography. American Book Co., New York. 1916.

Dunbar, Charles F. The Theory and History of Banking. 3d edition. Putnam, New York. 1917.

Durand, Edward D. The Trust Problem. Harvard University Press, Cambridge. 1915.

Edie, Lionel D. Current Social and Industrial Forces. Boni and Liveright, New York. 1920.

** Ely, Richard T. Outlines of Economics. Macmillan, New York. 1918.

------. Socialism, an Examination of its Nature, its Strength and its Weakness. Crowell, Boston.
1895.

Fanning, C. E. Selected Articles on the Conservation of Natural Resources. Debaters' Handbook
Series. H. W. Wilson Co., Minneapolis. 1913.

Fay, C. R. Coöperation at Home and Abroad. Macmillan, New York. 1910.

** Fetter, Frank A. Modern Economic Problems. Century Co., New York. 1917.

Fiske, Amos K. The Modern Bank. Appleton, New York. 1914. Ford, James. Coöperation in New England.
New York. 1913. * George, Henry. Progress and Poverty. Doubleday, Page and Co, New York. 1916.

Groat, George G. An Introduction the Study of Organized Labor in America. Macmillan, New York.
1919.

Hamilton, Walton H. Current Economic Problems. University of Chicago Press, Chicago. 1915.

Hammond, John Hays, and J. W. Jenks. Great American Issues, Chas. Scribner's Sons, New York. 1921.

Harris, Emerson P. Coöperation, the Hope of the Consumer. Macmillan, New York. 1918.

Hayward, William R. Money, What it is, and How to Use It. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1917.
2d revision. Kerr and Co., Chicago. 1908.

Hobson, John A. The Evolution of Modern Capitalism. New and revised edition. London. 1912.

Hoxie, Robert F. Scientific Management and Labor. Appleton, New York. 1915.

------. Trade Unionism in the United States. Appleton, New York. 1920.

* I. W. W. Constitution. Chicago. 1905.

* Johnson, Emory R. American Railway Transportation. Appleton, New York. 1912.

Kemmerer, Edwin W. The A B C of the Federal Reserve System. Princeton University Press, Princeton,
N. J. 1920.

King, Clyde L. Lower Living Costs in Cities. Appleton, New York. 1915.

* ------. The Regulation of Municipal Utilities. Appleton, New York. 1914.

* King, Willford Isbell. The Wealth and Income of the People of the United States. Macmillan,
New York. 1919.

** LeRossignol, James Edward. Orthodox Socialism. Crowell, New York. 1907.

* Malthus, Thomas Robert. Essay on Population.

* Marshall, Leon C., and L. S. Lyon. Our Economic Organization. Macmillan, New York. 1921.

* Marx, Karl, and Frederick Engels. The Communist Manifesto.

Myers, William Starr. Socialism and American Ideals. Princeton University Press, Princeton, 1919.

* Plehn, Carl C. Introduction to Public Finance. 4th edition. Macmillan, New York. 1920.

Porter, Robert P. The Dangers of Municipal Ownership. Century Co., New York. 1907.

Powell, George H. Coöperation in Agriculture. Macmillan, New York. 1913.

* Price, Overton W. The Land We Live In. Small, Maynard Co., Boston. 1919.

Ripley, William Z. Trusts, Pools and Corporations. Revised Edition. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1916.

** Seager, Henry Rogers. Principles of Economics. Henry Holt and Co., New York. 1917.

Seligman, Edwin R. Essays in Taxation. 8th edition. Macmillan, New York. 1917.

------. Principles of Economics. 6th edition. Longmans, Green and Co., New York. 1914.

* Skelton, O. D. Socialism, a Critical Analysis. Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston. 1911.

* Smith, Adam. An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations.

** Smith, J. Russell. Commerce and Industry. Henry Holt and Co., New York. 1916.

------. The Story of Iron and Steel. Appleton, New York. 1908.

Sonnichsen, Albert. Consumers' Coöperation. Macmillan, New York. 1919.

Tarbell, Ida M. The Tariff in Our Times. Macmillan, New York. 1911.

** Taussig, Frank W. Principles of Economics. 2 vols. Macmillan, New York. 1919.

------. The Tariff History of the United States. Putnam, New York. 1916.

Thompson, Charles M. Elementary Economics. B. H. Sanborn and Co., New York. 1920.

Thompson, Carl D. Municipal Ownership. B. W. Huebsch, New York 1917.

Van Hise, Charles R. Concentration and Control: a Solution of the Trust Problem in the United
States. Macmillan, New York. 1912.

** ------. The Conservation of Natural Resources in the United States. Macmillan, New York. 1918.

Weld, Louis D. H. The Marketing of Farm Products. Macmillan, New York. 1916.

White, Horace. Money and Banking. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1911.

Wood, Thomas B. The Story of a Loaf of Bread. Putnam, New York. 1913.

Young, Arthur N. The Single Tax Movement in the United States. Princeton University Press,
Princeton. 1916.

SOCIAL

Abbott, Edith. Women in Industry. Appleton, New York. 1910. Abbott, Grace. The Immigrant and
the Community. Century Co., New York. 1917.

Addams, Jane. The Spirit of Youth and the City Streets. Macmillan, New York. 1909.

Anderson, Wilbert Lee. The Country Town. Baker and Taylor Co., New York. 1906.

Antin, Mary. The Promised Land. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1912. ------. They Who Knock
at Our Gates. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston 1914.

* Atlanta University Publications. Atlanta University Press, Atlanta, Georgia.

Bailey, Liberty Hyde. The Training of Farmers. Century Co., New York. 1909.

Baldwin, Simeon E. The Relation of Education to Citizenship. Yale University Press, New Haven.
1912.

Bloomfield, Meyer. The Vocational Guidance of Youth. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1911.

Bogardus, Emory S. Essentials of Americanization. University of Southern California, Press,
Los Angeles. 1919.

Booth, Maud Ballington. After Prison--What? F. H. Revell Co., New York 1903.

* Bryce, James. The Hindrances to Good Citizenship. Yale University Press, New Haven. 1919.

** Burch, Henry Reed, and S. W. Patterson. American Social Problems. Macmillan, New York. 1919.

Butler, Elizabeth B. Women and the Trades. New York, 1909.

Butler, Nicholas Murray. The Meaning of Education, and Other Essays. Macmillan, New York. 1905.

Butterfield, Kenyon L. The Country Church and the Rural Problem. Chicago University Press,
Chicago. 1911.

* ------. The Farmer and the New Day. Macmillan, New York. 1919.

Cabot, Richard C. Social Work: Essays on the Meeting Ground of Doctor and Social Worker. Houghton
Mifflin Co., Boston. 1919.

Carney, Mabel. Country Life and the Country School. Row, Peterson and Co., Chicago. 1912.

** Carver, Thomas Nixon. Sociology and Social Progress. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1905.

Cleveland, Frederick A., and Joseph Schafer. Democracy in Reconstruction. Houghton Mifflin
Company, Boston. 1919.

Colcord, Joanna C. Broken Homes: a Study of Family Desertion and its Social Treatment. Russell
Sage Foundation, New York. 1919.

* Commons, John R. Races and Immigrants in America. Macmillan, New York. 1911.

Conyngton, Mary. How to Help. The Ronald Press, New York. 1906.

Coolidge, Mary. Chinese Immigration. Henry Holt and Co., New York. 1909.

Cubberley, Ellwood P. Changing Conceptions in Education. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1909.

* ------. Public Education in the United States. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1919.

Curtis, Henry S. Education Through Play. Macmillan, New York. 1915.

Davenport, Eugene. Education for Efficiency. D. C. Heath Co., Boston. 1909.

Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education. Bulletin 1919, No. 77. State Americanization.
Washington, D. C. 1920.

* Devine, Edward T. Misery and its Causes. Macmillan, New York. 1909.

* ------. The Practice of Charity. Dodd Mead and Co., New York. 1904.

* ------. The Principles of Relief. Macmillan, New York. 1904.

* ------. The Spirit of Social Work. Charities Publication Committee, New York. 1912.

Dewey, John. Schools of To-morrow. Dutton, New York. 1915.

Dugdale, Richard L. The Jukes, a Study in Crime, Pauperism, Disease and Heredity. Putnam, New
York. 1891.

Eliot, Charles W. Education for Efficiency. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1909.

** Ellwood, Charles A. Sociology and Modern Social Problems. American Book Co., New York. 1919.

Fisher, Irving. Bulletin of the Committee of One Hundred on National Health, being a Report
on National Vitality, its Wastes and Conservation. Government Printing Office, Washington,
D. C. 1909.

Galpin, Charles J. Rural Life. Century Co., New York. 1918.

* George, William R. The Junior Republic, its History and Ideals. Appleton, New York. 1910.

Gill, Charles O., and Gifford Pinchot. The Country Church. Macmillan, New York. 1913.

** Gillette, John Morris. Constructive Rural Sociology. Sturgis and Walton, New York. 1913.

Goddard, Henry H. The Kallikak Family. Macmillan, New York. 1912.

* Goodsell, Willystine. The Family as a Social and Educational Institution. Macmillan, New
York. 1915.

Gulick, Charlotte E. Emergencies. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1909.

Gulick, Sidney L. American Democracy and Asiatic Citizenship. Chas. Scribner's Sons, New York.
1919.

Hadley, Arthur T. The Education of the American Citizen. Chas. Scribner's Sons, New York. 1902.

* ------. The Relation between Freedom and Responsibility in the Evolution of Democratic Government.
Chas. Scribner's Sons, New York. 1903.

Hall, Herbert J., and M. M. C. Buck. Handicrafts for the Handicapped. Moffat, Yard and Co.,
New York. 1916.

** Hall, Prescott F. Immigration, and its Effects on the United States. Henry Holt and Co.,
New York. 1906.

Henderson, Charles Hanford. What is it to be Educated? Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1914.

* Henderson, Charles Richmond. An Introduction to the Study of the Dependent, Defective and
Delinquent Classes. D. C. Heath and Co., Boston. 1908.

------. Modern Methods of Charity. Macmillan, New York. 1904.

* ------. Modern Prison Systems. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 1903.

Hutchinson, Woods. Preventable Diseases. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1909.

* Jenks, Jeremiah, and W. Jett Lauck. The Immigration Problem. 4th edition. Funk and Wagnalls,
New York. 1917.

* Keller, Helen. The Story of My Life. Doubleday, Page and Co., New York. 1903.

Kelley, Florence. Some Ethical Gains through Legislation. New York. 1905.

King, Irving. Education for Social Efficiency. Appleton, New York. 1913. Leake, Albert H. Industrial
Education, Its Problems, Methods and Danger. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1913.

* Lee, Frederick S. The Human Machine and Industrial Efficiency. Longmans, Green and Co., New
York. 1918.

** Lewis, Burdette G. The Offender and His Relations to Law and Society. Harper and Bros.,
New York. 1917.

Lichtenberger, James P. Divorce, a Study in Social Causation. New York. 1909.

MacLean, Annie M. Women Workers and Society. McClurg, Chicago, 1916.

* McMurry, Frank M. How to Study and Teaching How to Study. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1909.

** Mangold, George B. Problems of Child Welfare. Macmillan, New York. 1914.

Ogden, Henry Neely. Rural Hygiene. Macmillan, New York. 1911.

Oliver, Thomas. Diseases of Occupation, from the Legislative, Social and Medical Points of
View. London. 1908.

Osborne, Thomas Mott. Society and Prisons. Yale University Press, New Haven. 1916.

* Parsons, Frank. Choosing a Vocation. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1909.

** Perry, Clarence A. Wider Use of the School Plant. Charities Publication Committee, New York.
1910.

Queen, Stuart. The Passing of the County Jail. George Banta Publishing Co., Menasha, Wis. 1920.

* Riis, Jacob A. The Battle with the Slum. Macmillan, New York. 1902.

Riis, Jacob A. The Peril and the Preservation of the Home. G. W. Jacobs Co., Philadelphia. 1903.

* Roberts, Peter. The Problem of Americanization. Macmillan, New York. 1920.

* Rubinow, Isaac M. Standards of Health Insurance. Henry Holt & Co., New York. 1916.

Sargent, Dudley A. Physical Education. Ginn and Co., Boston, 1906.

** Smith, Reginald Heber. Justice and the Poor. Carnegie Foundation for the advancement of
teaching, Bulletin No. 13, New York. 1919.

* Smith, Richard Mayo. Emigration and Immigration. Chas. Scribner's Sons, New York. 1904.

* Steiner, Edward A. From Alien to Citizen. F. H. Revell Co., New York. 1914.

* ------. On the Trail of the Immigrant. F. H. Revell Co., New York. 1906.

Steiner, Jessie F. The Japanese Invasion. Chicago, 1917.

Storey, Moorfield. Problems of To-day. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1920.

Taylor, Joseph S. A Handbook of Vocational Education. Macmillan, New York. 1914.

Tillinghast, Joseph A. The Negro in Africa and America. American Economic Association, New
York. 1902.

Tolman, Wm. H. Hygiene for the Worker. American Book Co., New York. 1912.

Tufts, James H. The Real Business of Living. Henry Holt and Co., New York. 1918.

** Vogt, Paul L. Introduction to Rural Sociology. Appleton, New York. 1917.

** Warner, Amos G. American Charities. 3d edition. Crowell, New York. 1919.

Washington, Booker T. The Future of the American Negro. Small, Maynard Co., Boston. 1902.

------. The Story of the Negro. Doubleday, Page and Co., New York. 1909.

** ------. Tuskegee and its People, their Ideals and Achievements. Doubleday, Page and Co.,
New York. 1905.

** ------. Up from Slavery. Doubleday, Page and Co., New York. 1901.

Waugh, Frank A. Rural Improvement, etc. Orange Judd Co., New York. 1914.

Willcox, Walter F. The Divorce Problem: a Study in Statistics. New York. 1897.

* Williamson, Thames Ross. i>Sociology of the American Negro.

** Wines, Frederick H. Punishment and Reformation. Latest edition.

* Wolfe, Albert. Readings in Social Problems. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1916.

Wood, Edith. The Housing of the Unskilled Wage Earner. Macmillan, New York. 1919.

Woods, Arthur. Crime Prevention. Princeton University Press, Princeton. 1918.

* Woods, Robert A. Americans in Process. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1902.

POLITICAL

Beard, Charles A. American Citizenship. Macmillan, New York. 1917

------. American City Government. Century Co., New York. 1912.

** ------. American Government and Politics. Macmillan, New York. 1920.

------. An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United States. Macmillan, New
York. 1913.

------. Readings in American Government and Politics. Macmillan, New York. 1912.

------. The Supreme Court and the Constitution. Macmillan, New York. 1912.

Beard, Charles A., and Birl Schultz. Documents on the State-wide Initiative, Referendum and
Recall. Macmillan, New York. 1912.

Borgeaud, Charles. Adoption and Amendment of Constitutions in Europe and America. Macmillan,
New York. 1895.

* Brewer, David J. American Citizenship. Chas. Scribner's Sons, New York. 1907.

Brooks, Robert C. Corruption in American Politics and Life. Dodd, Mead and Co., New York. 1910.

** Bryce, James. Modern Democracies. 2 vols. Macmillan, New York. 1921.

** ------. The American Commonwealth. 2 vols. Macmillan, New York. 1914.

Childs, Richard S. Short Ballot Principles. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1911.

** Cleveland, Frederick H., Organized Democracy. Longmans, Green and Co., New York. 1913.

* Cleveland, Frederick H., and A. E. Buck. The Budget and Responsible Government. Macmillan,
New York. 1920.

Commons, John R. Proportional Representation. Macmillan, New York. 1907.

Croly, Herbert. The Promise of American Life. Macmillan, New York. 1912.

** Cyclopedia of American Government. Edited by A. C. McLaughlin and A. B. Hart. 3 Vols. Appleton,
New York. 1914. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1915 ** Dunn, Arthur William. The Community and the Citizen.
D. C. Heath and Co., Boston. 1919.

Fairlie, John A. Local Government in Counties, Towns and Villages. Century Co., New York. 1906.

------. Municipal Administration. Macmillan, New York. 1906.

** ------. The National Administration of the United States of America. Macmillan, New York. 1905.

Follett, Mary Parker. The Speaker of the House of Representatives. Longmans, Green and Co.,
New York. 1904.

Foltz, E. B. K. The Federal Civil Service as a Career. Putnam, New York. 1909.

Ford, Henry Jones. The Cost of Our National Government. Columbia University Press. New York. 1910.

** ------. The Rise and Growth of American Politics. Macmillan, New York. 1900.

Forman, S. E. The American Democracy. Century Co., New York. 1920.

Gettell, Raymond G. Introduction to Political Science. Ginn and Co., Boston.

------. Problems in Political Evolution. Ginn and Co., Boston.

* ------. Readings in Political Science. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1911.

Gilbertson, H. S. The County. National Short Ballot Organization. New York. 1917.

Goodnow, Frank J. Social Reform and the Constitution. Macmillan, New York. 1911.

** Guitteau, William Backus.

Haines, Charles G. The American Doctrine of Judicial Supremacy. Macmillan, New York. 1914.

Hart, Albert Bushnell. Practical Essays in American Government. Longmans, Green & Co., New York.

Hinsdale, Mary L. A History of the President's Cabinet. Ann Arbor. 1911.

Hoar, Roger S. Constitutional Conventions. Little, Brown & Co., Boston. 1917.

** Holcombe, Arthur N. State Government in the United States. Macmillan, New York. 1916.

Hughes, Charles Evans. Conditions of Progress in Democratic Government. Yale University Press,
New Haven. 1910.

* Illinois Constitutional Convention Bulletins. Springfield, Illinois. 1920.

** Illinois Efficiency and Economy Report. Springfield, Illinois. 1915

** James, Herman G. Local Government in the Unites States. Appleton, New York. 1921.

* Jones, Chester L. Readings on Parties and Elections in the United States. Macmillan, New
York. 1912.

Kaye, Percy Lewis. Readings in Civil Government. Century Co., New York. 1910.

* Kimball, Everett. State and Municipal Government in the United States Ginn and Co., Boston. 1921.

* ------. The National Government of the United States. Ginn and Co., Boston. 1919.

Leacock, Stephen A. Elements of Political Science. Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston. 1913.

** Lowell, A. Lawrence. Public Opinion and Popular Government. Longmans, Green & Co., New York.
1913.

McCall, Samuel Walker. The Business of Congress, Columbia University Press, New York. 1911.

McKinley, Albert E. The Suffrage Franchise in the Thirteen English Colonies in America. Philadelphia.
1905.

** Massachusetts Constitutional Convention Bulletins. Boston, 1917.

** Mathews, John M. Principles of State Administration. Appleton, New York. 1917.

Maxey, C. C. County Administration. Macmillan, New York. 1919.

Merriam, Charles Edward. American Political Ideas. Macmillan, New York. 1920.

** Munro, William Bennett. The Government of American Cities. Macmillan, New York. 1920.

------. The Government of European Cities. Macmillan, New York. 1909

** ------. The Government of the United States. Macmillan, New York 1919.

* ------. The Initiative, Referendum and Recall. Appleton, New York 1913.

Porter, Kirk. A History of Suffrage in the United States. University of Chicago Press, Chicago.
1918.

** Ray, P. Orman. An Introduction to Political Parties and Practical Politics Chas. Scribner's
Sons, New York. 1913.

** Reed, Thomas Harrison. Form and Functions of American Government World Book Co., New York. 1917.

* Reinsch, Paul S. American Legislatures and Legislative Methods. Century Co., New York. 1913.

------. Readings on American Federal Government. Ginn and Co., Boston, 1909.

------. Readings on American State Government. Ginn and Co., Boston, 1911.

Root, Elihu. Addresses on Government and Citizenship. Harvard University Press, Cambridge. 1916.

* Seymour, Charles. How the World Votes. 2 Vols. C. A. Nichols Co., Springfield. 1918.

Taft, William Howard. Our Chief Magistrate and His Powers. Columbia University Press New York.
1916.

Taft, William Howard. Popular Government. Yale University Press, New Haven. 1914.

* Woodburn, James Albert. Political Parties and Party Problems in the United States. Putnam,
New York. 1914.

Woodburn, James Albert, and T. F. Moran. The Citizen and the Republic. Longmans, Green and
Co., New York. 1920.

Young, James T. The New American Government and its Work. Macmillan, New York. 1915. [Adopted
in 1919.]

ARTICLE XIX.

Section 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.