6. Outside the true Church of God there is no recognised voice strong enough to enforce any
uniformity of belief. Though the Pope's authority was acknowledged throughout England for over
one thousand years, yet at the time of the so-called Reformation, that Voice of God, speaking
through Peter, was admitted no longer. Hence, as Cardinal Manning most truly observes: "The
old forms of religious thought are now passing away in England. The rejection of the Divine
Voice has let in the flood of opinion; and opinion has generated scepticism; and scepticism
has brought on contentions without end. What seemed so solid once, is disintegrated. It is
dissolving by the internal action of the principle from which it sprung. The critical unbelief
of dogma has now reached to the foundation of Christianity, and to the veracity of Scripture.
Such is the world the Catholic Church Sees before it at this day. The Anglicanism of the Reformation
is upon the rocks, like some tall ship stranded upon the shore, and going to pieces, by its
own weight and the steady action of the sea. We have no need of playing the wreckers. It would
be inhumanity to do so. God knows that the desires and prayers of Catholics are ever ascending
that all that remains of Christianity in England may be preserved, unfolded and perfected into
the whole circle of revealed truths, and the unmutilated revelation of the Faith.

"It is inevitable that if we speak plainly we must give pain and offence to those who will
not admit the possibility that they are out of the Faith and the Church of Jesus Christ. But,
if we do not speak plainly, woe unto us, for we shall betray our trust and our Master. There
is a day coming, when they who have softened down the truth, or have been silent, will have
to give account. I had rather be thought harsh than be conscious of hiding the light which
has been mercifully shown to me" (Temp. Mission, etc., p. 215).

It would be well if all Catholics took to heart these noble words of the great English Cardinal,
who was himself once an Archdeacon in the Anglican Church. Real charity urges us to set forth
the truth in all its nakedness and beauty. This must be done, even though it may sometimes
give pain and cause irritation. If a man be walking in a trance towards the crumbling edge
of some ghastly precipice, who--let me ask--acts with the greater charity, he who is afraid
to interfere, and will calmly allow the somnambulist to walk on, till he fall over into the
abyss; or he who will shout, and, if need be, roughly shake him from his fatal sleep, and so,
perhaps, save him from destruction? Surely, to allow a fellow-creature to follow a path of
extreme danger, for fear of wounding his susceptibilities and incurring his anger, by candidly
pointing out his peril, is the mark, not of a lover of his brethren, but rather of one who
loves himself alone. (Ezek. iii. 18).

P.S.--Among the authors quoted in THE PURPOSE OF THE PAPACY may be mentioned the following,
as being easily obtainable by English readers: Allnatt, Allies, Bonomelli, Capel, Castelplano,
Dering, Deviver, Franzelin, Humphrey, Manning, Merry del Val, Meyer, Minges, Newman, O'Reilly,
Rhodes, Ullathorne, Ward.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 9: "Da chi dipenderà il Pontefice nell' esercizio del suo potere Spirituale? Dai
Rè? Eccovi il gallicanismo parlamentare! Dalle masse dei fedeli? Eccovi il richerianismo, e
febronianismo! Dai Vescovi? Eccovi il gallicanismo teologico" (L. di Castelplanio, p. 104).]

[Footnote 10: Take for instance, 37 Henry VIII. Chap.

   As the First Part of this little treatise is devoted to a
   consideration of the position of the Pope and the authority
   which he exercises throughout the Universal Church; so the
   Second Part is concerned with the position occupied and the
   authority exercised by the same Sovereign Pontiff in our own
   country of England, before she was cut off from the
   Universal Church in the sixteenth century.

CHAPTER I.

THE CHURCH IN ENGLAND BEFORE THE REFORMATION.

One of the greatest glories of the Catholic Church is that she and she alone possesses and
is able to communicate to others the whole truth revealed by Jesus Christ. The Church of England
and other Churches that have gone out from her have, we are thankful to say, carried with them
some fragments of Christianity, but the Catholic Church alone possesses the whole unadulterated
revelation of Jesus Christ. For over a thousand years, the Church in England formed a part
of the great Universal Church, the centre of which is at Rome and the circumference of which
is everywhere. From the sixth to the sixteenth century the Church in England was a province
of that Church, and received her power and jurisdiction from the Holy See. It was not until
the sixteenth century that she apostatised, and was cut off from the stem, out of which she
had sprung, as a rotten branch is lopped off from a healthy tree. It was not until then that
she became a Church apart, distinct from the Church of God, no longer the Catholic Church in
England, but henceforth the National Church of England and of England alone. The pre-"Reformation"
Church was, as we have said, not a separate Church, but a part of the one Catholic Church,
whereas the post-"Reformation" Church stands alone, unrecognised by the rest of Christendom;
hence the one is absolutely distinct from the other. The grand old cathedrals and churches
designed, built, and paid for by our Catholic ancestors have been forcibly taken possession
of, but the Faith, the teaching, and the doctrine--in a word, the Church itself--is totally
distinct. The wolf may slay and devour the sheep and may then clothe himself in its fleece,
but the wolf is not the sheep, and the nature of the one remains totally different from that
of the other. The proofs of all this are so numerous and so striking that one scarcely knows
which to choose, nor where to begin. In the present chapter, we will content ourselves with
calling attention to certain points that every one will be able to grasp. It is said that a
straw will show which way the wind blows, so things even trivial in themselves will enable
any unprejudiced man to see that there must be some radical difference between the Church in
England four hundred years ago, and the Church of England to-day. First, let us just look round
and consider the Catholic Church. It is spread all over the world. It is found in France, in
Belgium, in Italy, in Spain, and in other countries, all of which recognised the Church in
England before the "Reformation" as one in faith and doctrine with themselves. They felt themselves
united with it in one and the same belief; they taught the same seven Sacraments; they gathered
around the same Sacrifice; they acknowledged the same supremacy of the same spiritual head.
Now there is no single Catholic country that recognises the Church of England as anything but
heretical and schismatical.

Formerly when any Archbishop of Canterbury travelled abroad he was received as a brother by
the Catholic Bishops all over the Continent. He felt thoroughly at home in the Catholic churches,
and offered up the Divine Mysteries at their altars, using the same sacred vessels, reading
from the same missal, speaking the same language, and feeling himself to be a member of the
same spiritual family. Can the present Archbishop of Canterbury follow their example? Would
the Cardinal Archbishop of Paris, for instance, or the Archbishop of Milan receive the Anglican
Archbishop of Canterbury, as a brother Bishop? Would they cause their cathedrals to be thrown
open to him? No.

In vain does the Archbishop of Canterbury of to-day claim continuity with the pre-"Reformation"
Archbishops. For no one would be found to admit such a claim. It may be said that this is of
no great importance. It may not be in itself, but it is the straw which shows the way the wind
blows; and clearly proves that the verdict of the entire world and the chief centres of Christendom
is against continuity.

Let us take another "straw". Before the pseudo-Reformation there were Cardinals exercising
authority in the Church in England. Some of them even became famous. There was, for instance,
Cardinal Stephen Langton, who was Primate of England, and who brought together the Barons,
and forced the Great Charter from King John. There, amongst the signatures to that famous document
we find the name of a Roman Cardinal. From the time of Stephen Langton to the time of Cardinal
Fisher in the sixteenth century there was a long succession of Cardinals in England, all of
whom were members of the Church in England. From the time of Cardinal Robert Pullen to that
of Cardinal John Fisher there were no fewer than twenty-two Roman Cardinals belonging to that
Church. How is it that during those thousand years the English Church could have and actually
did have Cardinals, up to the time of the so-called Reformation, but never since? How is it
that such a thing has ceased to be possible? Clearly because it is no longer the same Church.
Before, England was a part of the Universal Church; and just as the Church in Italy, France,
and Spain, had, and still have, their Cardinals, so England also was given its share of representation
in the Sacred College. We shall realise the inference to be drawn if we consider what a Cardinal
is. In the first place, he is one chosen directly by the Pope; secondly, he is one of the Pope's
advisers; thirdly, when the Holy Father dies it is he, as a member of the Sacred College, who
has to elect a successor; furthermore, he swears allegiance to the Sovereign Pontiff, and on
bended knee, with his hands on the Holy Gospels, he solemnly declares his adhesion to the Roman
Catholic Faith. No Anglican of the present day, no Protestant, no one who is not an out-and-out
Roman Catholic can be, or could ever have been, a Cardinal, yet there were Cardinals here in
the Church in England, and, as we have stated, a long succession of them right up to the time
of the pseudo-Reformation. How can there be continuity and spiritual identity between the Church
in England, which before that change could and did have Cardinals, and the Church of England
to-day, which can produce nothing of the kind? Cardinals or no Cardinals is not a matter of
great importance in itself, but it is another "straw" which clearly shows the completely altered
condition of things. Let us pass to another point. During the period between the sixth and
sixteenth centuries there were many canonised saints in the Church in England. I refer to such
men as St. Bede, who lived in the eighth century; to St. Odo of Canterbury; to St. Dunstan,
Archbishop of Canterbury, in the tenth century; to St. Wolstan of Worcester; to St. Osmond,
Bishop of Salisbury in the eleventh century; to St. Thomas à Becket, in the twelfth century;
to St. Richard, Bishop of Chichester and St. Edmund, in the thirteenth century; and to many
others we could mention, whose names are enrolled in the lists of the Catholic Church, and
who are set up before her children as models of virtue, as the most perfect specimens of sanctity,
and as worthy of our imitation--all members of the Church in England before the pseudo-Reformation.[11]
How is it that the present Church of England has never canonised any saint? Those to whom I
have referred represent the best and truest of the Church in England before the "Reformation".
We still show them reverence. In many cases we even recite their offices and Masses. How, then,
can they be members of the same Church as the Church of England of to-day, which we know to
be a schismatical body, cut off from the unity of Christendom some four hundred years ago?
There has been no saint canonised according to the rite of the Church of England, but if there
had been, we would not and could not reverence them, for they would be to us outside the Church--aliens,
heretics, and, from that point of view at all events, unworthy of imitation. Let us point out
yet another "straw" which clearly indicates the essential difference between the Church in
England before the "Reformation" and the Church of England after it. When the young King Henry
VIII. first came to the throne he, like all his predecessors, both kings and queens, was a
true Roman Catholic. So much so, that when a doctrine of the Church was attacked he wrote a
book in its defence; in fact, the Pope was so pleased with his zeal that he determined to reward
him by conferring on him the title of "Defender of the Faith". But, in the name of common-sense!
Defender of what Faith? Was it the Protestant faith? Was it the faith professed by the present
Church of England? Is it likely, is it possible, that any Pope would confer such a title on
any one who was not in union with the Holy See, and who rejected Catholic doctrine? Such a
thing is unthinkable. Was the faith of Henry VIII. before the break with Rome the same as that
of Edward VII. who on his coronation day declared the Mass to be false, Transubstantiation
to be absurd, and Catholics to be idolaters? If not, then what becomes of the continuity theory?
The fact is that between the Church in England before the sixteenth century and the Church
of England to-day there is no real connection, no true resemblance, and those who endeavour
to prove the contrary are but falsifying history and throwing dust into the eyes of simple
people, and trying to prove what is absolutely and wholly untrue.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 11: As early as 1170 Pope Alexander III. decreed that the consent of the Roman Church
was necessary before public honour as a saint could be given to any person. Is it conceivable
that such consent would be given by any Pope in the case of one not united to Rome in the same
faith?]

CHAPTER II.

THE OATH OF OBEDIENCE.

In order to realise the absolute absurdity of the continuity theory, and to see how thoroughly
Roman Catholic England was right up to the "Reformation," it is enough for us to turn back
the hands of the great clock of time some few hundred years, and to visit England at any period
during the long interval between the sixth and the sixteenth century.

One of the first facts that would strike any observant visitor to our shores in those days,
would be the attitude of the Church in England towards the Holy See. Every Archbishop, every
metropolitan from the time of St. Augustine himself, A.D. 601, up to the sixteenth century,
not merely acknowledged the authority of the Pope, but solemnly swore to show him reverence
and obedience. Furthermore, even when an Archbishop had been appointed and consecrated, he
could not exercise jurisdiction until he had received the sacred pallium, which came from Rome,
and was received as the symbol and token of the authority conferred on him by the supreme Pastor.
The pallium itself, "taken from the body of Blessed Peter," is a band of lamb's wool, and was
worn by each Archbishop as the pledge of unity and of orthodoxy, as well as the fetter of loving
subjection to the Supreme Pastor of the One Fold, the "apostolic yoke" of Catholic obedience.

