These laws have a long history. From Aristotle, the ancient Greek who first wrote books on
psychology, there came down to modern times four laws of association. Facts become associated,
according to Aristotle, when they are {395} contiguous (or close together) in space, or when
they are contiguous in time, or when they resemble each other, or when they contrast with each
other. The psychologists of the earlier modern period, in the eighteenth and first part of
the nineteenth centuries, labored with very good success to reduce these four laws to one comprehensive
law of association. Contiguity in space and in time were combined into a law of association
by contiguity in experience, since evidently mere physical contiguity between two objects could
establish no association between them in any one's mind except as he experienced them together.

Association by Similarity

Continuing their simplification of the laws of association, these older psychologists showed
that resemblance and contrast belonged together, since to be similar things must have something
in common, and to be contrasted also two things must have something in common. You contrast
north with south, a circle and a square, an automobile and a wheelbarrow; but no one thinks
of contrasting north with a circle, south with an automobile, or a square and a wheelbarrow,
though these pairs are more incongruous than the others. Things that are actually associated
as contrasting with each other have something in common; and therefore association by contrast
could be included under association by similarity. Thus the four laws had been reduced to two,
association by contiguity and association by similarity.

The final step in this reduction was to show that association by similarity was a special case
of association by contiguity. To be similar, two things must have something in common, and
this common part, being contiguous with the remainder of each of the two things, establishes
an indirect contiguity between the two things, a {396} sort of contiguity bridge between them.
One thing has the parts or characteristics, A B X Y, and the similar thing has the parts or
characteristics, C D X Y; and thus X Y, when seen in the second thing, call up A B, with which
they are contiguous in the first thing.

A stranger reminds me of my friend because something in the stranger's face or manner has been
met with before in my friend; it has been contiguous with my friend, and recalls him by virtue
of this contiguity. The stranger, as a whole individual, has never been contiguous with my
friend, but some characteristic of the stranger has been thus contiguous. In association by
similarity, it is not the whole present object that arouses recall of the similar object, but
some part of the present object. This kind of association is important in thinking, since it
brings together facts from different past experiences, and thus assembles data that may be
applied to a new problem. If every new object or situation could only be taken as a whole,
it could not remind me of anything previously met; and I should be like an inexperienced child
in the presence of each new problem; but, taken part by part, the novel situation has been
met with before, and can be handled in the light of past experience.

Exactly what there is in common between two similar faces or other objects cannot always be
clearly made out; but the common characteristic is there, even if not consciously isolated,
and acts as an effective stimulus to recall.

Association by Contiguity

This reduction of all the laws of association to one great law was no mean achievement; and
the law of association by contiguity in experience holds good. If one thing recalls another
to your mind, you can be sure that the two {397} have been contiguous in your experience, either
as wholes or piecemeal. For two things to become associated, they must be experienced together.

Yes, the law holds good, when thus stated--but notice that the statement is virtually negative.
It says, in effect, that two things do not become associated unless they are contiguous in
experience. If it were turned about to read that two things do become associated if they are
contiguous in experience, it would no longer be a true law, for the exceptions would then be
extremely numerous.

The memory and testimony experiments have brought many exceptions to light. Show a person twenty
pictures in a row, and let him examine each one in turn so closely that he can later recognize
every one of them; and still he will not have the adjacent pictures so associated that each
one can call up the next in order. To accomplish his last task, he has to observe the order
specifically; it is not enough that he simply experiences pictures together. Or, again, read
to a person twenty pairs of words, asking him to notice the pairs so that later he can respond
by the second word of any pair when the first word is given him; and read the list through
three or four times, so that he shall be able to make almost a perfect score in the expected
test; still he will have formed few associations between the contiguous pairs, and will make
a very low score if you ask him to recite the pairs in order. Many similar experiments have
yielded the same general result--contiguity in experience and still no association.

The law of association by contiguity is unsatisfactory from a modern standpoint because it
treats only of the stimulus, and says nothing about the response. It states, quite truly, that
stimuli must be contiguous in order that an association between them may be formed, but it
neglects to state that the association, being something in us, must {398} be formed by our
reaction to the stimuli. It is especially necessary to consider the response because, as we
have just seen, the response is not always made and the association, therefore, not always
formed. Only if the stimuli are contiguous, can the associating response be aroused, but they
do not infallibly arouse it even if they are contiguous.

The law of contiguity is incomplete, also, because it is not applicable to the association
of two motor acts into a coördinated higher unit, or of the combination of two primary emotions
into a higher emotional unit.

In a word, the time-honored law of association is no longer satisfactory because it does not
fit into a stimulus-response psychology. It comes down from a time when the motor side of mental
performances was largely overlooked by psychology, and when the individual was pictured as
being passively "impressed" with the combinations of facts that were presented to his senses.

The Law of Combination

What we need, then, as an improvement on the old law of association by contiguity, and as a
supplement to the law of exercise, is some law governing the response to two or more contiguous
stimuli. Now we already have such a law, which we put to some use in studying attention, [Footnote:
See pp. 268-264.] and called the law of "combination", or of "unitary response to a plurality
of stimuli". We had better fetch that law out again and put it in good repair, and see whether
it is adequate for the job that we now have on hand. In a very general, abstract form, the
law of combination read that "two or more stimuli may arouse a single joint response". Let
us add a single word, which had not risen above the horizon when we formulated the law before,
and say that {399} two or more contiguous stimuli may arouse a single joint response.

That seems very little to say; can we possibly go far with so simple a statement? Well, let
us see. In saying that two or more stimuli arouse a single response, we imply that there is
already some rudimentary linkage between each stimulus and their common response, and that
this linkage is used in arousing the response. Now bring in our trusty law of exercise, and
we see that the use, or exercise, of such a linkage may strengthen it to such an extent that,
later, a single one of the stimuli may arouse the response which was originally aroused by
the whole collection of stimuli.

Does that promise any better? Probably it requires further discussion and exemplification before
its value can be appreciated. Let us, then, first discuss it a bit, and then apply it to the
explanation of the chief varieties of learned reaction that have come to our attention.

The law of combination attempts to show how it comes about that a stimulus, originally unable
to arouse a certain response, acquires the power of arousing it; and the law states that this
occurs only when the originally ineffective stimulus is combined with others which can and
do arouse the response. The ineffective stimulus, being one of a combination of stimuli which
collectively arouse the response, participates to some slight degree in arousing that response
and may thus become effectively linked with the response.

Notice an assumption underlying the law of combination. Evidently a stimulus could not take
part in arousing a response unless there were some pre-existing linkage between it and the
response. This linkage may however be extremely loose and feeble, and wholly incapable by itself
of arousing the response. The assumption of pre-existing loose linkage between almost any stimulus
and almost any response is justified by the facts of playful behavior and trial and error {400}
behavior. In addition to the close reflex connections provided in the native constitution,
and in addition also to the close connections formed in previous training, there are at any
time, and especially in childhood and youth, a vast number of loose connections. These are
too weak to operate singly, until they have coöperated in producing a response, and thus been
individually strengthened, after which they may be able singly to produce the response.

The law of combination, then, as applied to learning, includes four points:

  (a) A collection of stimuli may work together and arouse a single
      response.

  (b) This is possible because of pre-existing loose linkage between
      the separate stimuli and the response.

  (c) When any stimulus, working together with others, helps to arouse
      a response, its linkage with that response is strengthened by
      exercise.

  (d) The linkage may be sufficiently strengthened so that a single
      stimulus can arouse the response without help from the other
      stimuli that were originally necessary.

Having now abundantly stated and reiterated the law of combination in the abstract, let us
turn to concrete instances of learned reactions, and see how the law takes care of them. We
have already classified a large share of all the concrete instances under a few main heads,
as substitute stimulus, substitute response, combination (or association) of stimuli, and combination
of responses. We shall presently find it possible to reduce these four classes to two, since
the association of two objects, by virtue of which one of them later recalls the other, is
a rather complicated case of substitute stimulus, while the combination of movements into a
higher unit is a complicated case of substitute response.

  [Footnote: To distinguish between "substitute stimulus" and
  "substitute response" is, in strict logic, like distinguishing
  between "inside out" and "outside in." Whenever there is a
  substitute stimulus there is also a substitute response, of course,
  since this stimulus, in being substituted for another, gets that
  other's response in place of its own original response; and in the
  same way, you can always find substitute stimulus in any instance of
  substitute response; for, in being substituted for another, a
  response gets that other's stimulus in place of its own original
  stimulus. For all that, the distinction between the two main cases
  of learning is of some importance, since sometimes the changed
  stimulus, and sometimes the changed response, is the interesting
  fact.]

{401}

I. SUBSTITUTE STIMULUS EXPLAINED BY THE LAW OF COMBINATION

Here the response, without being itself essentially changed, becomes attached to a new stimulus.
We distinguish two cases under the general head of substitute stimulus. In the one case, the
substitute stimulus was originally extraneous, and unnecessary for arousing the response, while
in the other case it was originally necessary as part of a team of stimuli that aroused the
response.

A. Substitute Stimulus Originally Unnecessary for Arousing the Response

1. Conditioned reflex.

This is the very simplest case belonging under the law of combination. The dog that responded
to the bell by a flow of saliva, after the bell plus a tasting substance had acted together
on him time after time, is the typical instance; and another good instance is that of the little
child who was "taught" to shrink from a rabbit by the sounding of a harsh noise along with
the showing of the rabbit. [Footnote: See p. 303.] The explanation of all instances of conditioned
reflex is the same. We have an effective stimulus acting, i.e., a stimulus strongly linked
with the response; and we also have acting an ineffective stimulus, which gets drawn into the
same reaction. The effective stimulus determines what response shall be made, and the other
stimulus finds an outlet {402} into that response, being, as it seems, attracted towards the
activated response, sucked into it. The weak linkage from the ineffective stimulus to the response,
being thus used and strengthened, later enables this stimulus to arouse the response single-handed.

This sort of thing is best presented in a diagram. A full line in the diagram denotes a linkage
strong enough to work alone, while a dotted line denotes a weak linkage. Letters stand for
stimuli and responses. In the diagram for conditioned reflex, A is the original effective stimulus
(the rasping noise in the instance of the child and the rabbit), and B is the ineffective stimulus
(the sight of the rabbit). R is the shrinking response, linked strongly to the stimulus A and
only weakly to the stimulus B, which has several other linkages fully as good as the linkage
B-R. But A arouses the response R; and R, being thus activated, draws on B and brings the linkage
B-R into use. After this has occurred a number of times, the linkage B-R has been so strengthened
by repeated exercise that it can operate alone, so that the rabbit brings the shrinking response
even in the absence of A, the noise.

At first, the child shrinks from the noise, but, the rabbit being before his eyes, he incidentally
shrinks from the rabbit as well. He really shrinks in response to all the stimuli acting on
him at that moment. He shrinks from the whole situation. He makes a unitary response to the
whole collection of contiguous stimuli, and thus exercises the linkage between each stimulus
and their joint response. The {403} linkage between rabbit and shrinking is later strong enough
to work alone. It is a clear case of the law of combination.

2. Learning the names of things.

A child who can imitate simple words that he hears is shown a penny and the word "penny" is
spoken to him. To this combination of stimuli he responds by saying the word. This is primarily
a response to the auditory stimulus, since the sight of the penny, though it might probably
have aroused some response, and even some vocal response from the child, had no strong linkage
with this particular vocal response. But the auditory stimulus determined the response, and
attracted the visual stimulus into this particular channel of saying "penny". The linkage from
the sight of the penny to the saying of this word being thus strengthened by exercise, the
seen penny later gives the right vocal response, without any auditory stimulus to assist.

{404}

B. Substitute Stimulus Originally an Essential Member Of A Team of Stimuli That Aroused the
Response

1. Observed grouping or relationship.

"Learning by observation" is a very important human accomplishment, and we found many evidences
of its importance in our study of the process of memorizing. The facts observed, which assist
memory so greatly, are usually relations or groups.

Evidently the observation of a group of things is a response to a collection of stimuli, and
could not originally be aroused by any one of the stimuli alone. The same is true of observing
a relationship; the observation is a response to two things taken together, and not, originally,
to either of the two things taken alone. In spite of this, a single one of the things may later
call to mind the relationship, or the group; that is, it arouses the response originally made
to the pair or group of stimuli. The single stimulus has been substituted for the team that
originally aroused the response. Its linkage with the response has been so strengthened by
exercise as to operate effectively without assistance.

For example, in learning pairs of words in a "paired {405} associates experiment", [Footnote:
See p. 336.] the subject is apt to find some relation between the words forming a pair, even
though they are supposed to be "unrelated words". When he has thus learned the pair, either
of the words in it will recall the observed relation and the other word of the pair. Sometimes,
after a long interval especially, the relation is recalled without the other word. One subject
fixed the pair, "windy--occupy", by thinking of a sailor occupying a windy perch up in the
ropes. Some weeks later, on being given the word "windy", he recalled the sailor on the perch,
but could not get the word "occupy". That is, he made the same response to "windy" that he
had originally made to "windy--occupy", but did not get the response completely enough to give
the second word.

In the typical cases of association by contiguity when one object reminds us of another that
was formerly experienced together with it, the law of combination comes in as just described.
The two objects were observed to be grouped or related in some way, or some such unitary response
was made to the two objects taken together, and this response became so linked to each of the
objects that later a single one of them arouses this unitary response and recalls the other
object. In the free association test, [Footnote: See p. 380.] the stimulus word "dimple" calls
up the previously made response of seeing a dimple in a cheek, and so leads to the word "cheek".
In a controlled association test, where opposites are required, the stimulus word "mythical"
arouses the previously made observation of the antithesis of mythical and historical, and so
leads to the motor response of saying the latter word.

  [Footnote: When, however, this indirect linkage between stimulus and
  motor response is frequently exercised, short-circuiting takes place
  (see p. 338), and the stimulus word arouses the motor response
  directly. Short-circuiting follows the law of combination very
  nicely. Let a stimulus S arouse an idea I and this in turn a motor
  act M. S--I--M represents the linkages used. But undoubtedly there
  is a weak pre-existing linkage directly across from S to M, and this
  gets used to a slight degree, strictly according to the conditioned
  reflex diagram, with I playing the part of the effective stimulus in
  arousing M, and S the part of the originally ineffective stimulus.
  By dint of being exercised in this way, the linkage S--M becomes
  strong enough to arouse the motor response directly, and I is then
  very likely to be left out altogether.]

{406}

2. Response by analogy and association by similarity.

When an object reminds me of a similar object, that is association by similarity. But suppose
I actually take the object to be the similar object, and behave towards it accordingly; then
my reaction is called "response by analogy". Once, when far from home, I saw a man whom I took
to be an acquaintance from my home town, and stepped up to him, extending my hand. He did not
appear very enthusiastic, and informed me that, in his opinion, I had made a mistake. This
was response by analogy, but if I had simply said to myself that that man looked like my acquaintance,
that would have been association by similarity. Really, association by similarity is the more
complex response, for it involves response to the points of newness in the present object,
as well as to the points of resemblance to the familiar object, whereas response by analogy
consists simply in responding to the points of resemblance.

Response by analogy often appears in little children, as when they call all men "papa"' or
as when they call the squirrel a "kitty" when first seen. If they call it a "funny kitty",
that is practically association by similarity, since the word "funny" is a response to the
points in which a squirrel is different from a cat, while the word "kitty" is a response to
the points of resemblance.

But response by analogy is not always so childish or comic as the above examples might seem
to imply. When we respond to a picture by recognizing the objects depicted, that is response
by analogy, since the pictured object is only {407} partially like the real object; a bare
outline drawing may be enough to arouse the response of "seeing" the object. Other instances
of response by analogy will come to light when, in the next chapter, we come to the study of
perception.

The machinery of response by analogy is easily understood by aid of the law of combination.
A complex object, presenting a number of parts and characteristics, arouses the response of
seeing and perhaps naming the object. This is a unitary response to a collection of stimuli,
and each of the parts or characteristics of the object participates in arousing the response,
and the linkage of each part with the response is thus strengthened. Later, therefore, the
whole identical object is not required to arouse this same {408} response, but some of its
parts or characteristics will give the response, and they may do this even when they are present
in an object that has other and unfamiliar parts and characteristics.

The machinery of association by similarity is the same, with the addition of a second response,
called out by the new characteristics of the present object.

II. SUBSTITUTE RESPONSE EXPLAINED BY THE LAW OF COMBINATION

The substitute response machinery is more complicated than that of the substitute stimulus,
as it includes the latter and something more. What that something more is will be clear if
we ask ourselves why a substitute response should ever be made. Evidently because there is
something wrong with the original response; if that were entirely satisfactory, it would continue
to be made, and there would be no room for a substitute. The original response being unsatisfactory
to the individual, how is he to find a substitute? Only by finding some stimulus that will
arouse it. This is where trial and error come in, consisting in a search for some extra stimulus
that shall give a satisfactory response.

