Sweet potatoes roasted under beef or lamb are very nice. Take the skin off carefully to leave
the surface smooth, wash and put them under the meat, allowing half an hour for a medium sized
potato. They will brown over nicely and receive an agreeable flavor.

SWEET POTATO SALAD.

Boil three large sweet potatoes. Cut into half-inch squares. Cut into very small pieces two
stalks of celery. Season with salt and pepper and pour over a French dressing as follows:--Three
tablespoonfuls salad oil, two of vinegar, one tablespoonful onion juice, one saltspoon each
of salt and pepper. Let salad stand in refrigerator two hours. Garnish with pickles, pitted
olives and parsley.

CHICAGO RECORD.

SWISS CHARD OR SILVER LEAF BEET.

The leaves of Swiss Chard are boiled and used like spinach. The stalks and midrib are very
broad and tender and when young are used like asparagus. The leaves of sorrel and spinach are
often used together as greens. (See Asparagus and Spinach receipts).

BAKED TOMATOES.

Tomatoes may be simply baked without stuffing. Peel them first, lay stem end down in a dripping
pan, cut a Greek cross on the top of each, season with salt, pepper and sugar, dot with bits
of butter and sprinkle thickly with fine stale crumbs, adding a generous bit of butter on top
of each. Pour in at the side of the pan two tablespoonfuls of water.

BROILED TOMATOES.

Turn hot boiling water on to the tomatoes to peel them, cut slices at least three-quarters
of an inch thick, and small tomatoes in halves, rub a piece of fat pork on the gridiron, put
on the tomatoes, and broil on both sides, or dip in sweet oil and broil, or cover both sides
with cheese and broil, or slice the tomatoes with their skins on and broil, and pour melted
butter over them. In all cases season nicely with salt and pepper, garnish with parsley or
cress and serve hot on a hot dish.

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES.

Arrange in a baking pan layers of tomatoes covered with bread crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper,
a little sugar, and dotted with butter. Let the upper layer be of bread crumbs dotted with
butter. Bake covered, half an hour. A few minutes before serving take off the cover and brown.

TOMATO CATSUP.

Use ripe tomatoes, boil and strain. To every gallon of tomatoes use 3 tablespoonfuls of salt,
2 of mustard, 1-1/2 black pepper, 1/4 of cayenne, cup of brown sugar and 1 pint of cider vinegar.
Boil four hours and watch carefully or it will burn. Set on back of stove and add 1 tablespoonful
of cinnamon, 1/2 tablespoonful of cloves, and if liked, 1 pint currant jelly. Mix thoroughly,
can while hot and seal.

TOMATO FIGS.

Scald and peel the tomatoes, then weigh them, place them in a stone jar with an equal amount
of sugar and let them stand two days, then pour off the syrup and boil and skim until no scum
rises. Pour it over the tomatoes and let them stand two days as before, pour off, boil and
skim a second time and a third time. After the third time they are fit to dry if the weather
is good, if not let them stand in syrup until drying weather. Place on earthen dishes and dry
in the sun which will take about a week, after which pack them in wooden boxes with fine white
paper between the layers; so prepared they will keep for years.

FRIED TOMATOES.

Do not pare the tomatoes, cut in slices, roll in flour and fry in butter until both sides are
brown, season with salt, pepper and a little sugar sprinkled over while cooking; or after the
tomatoes are browned, stir into the gravy in the spider, one cupful of cream thickened with
flour. Let it boil up, and turn it over the tomatoes.

MACARONI WITH TOMATOES.

Remove from each tomato the pips and watery substance it contains; put the tomatoes in a saucepan
with a small piece of butter, pepper, salt, thyme and a bay leaf, and a few tablespoonfuls
of gravy or stock, keep stirring until they are reduced to a pulp, then strain through a sieve,
and pour over macaroni already boiled soft and cover with grated cheese; bake until a light brown.

TOMATO MANGOES. (See Mangoes.)

TOMATO MUSTARD.

To one peck of ripe tomatoes add a teaspoonful of salt; let it stew a half hour, and strain
through a sieve. Add two dessertspoonfuls of onions chopped fine, a dessertspoonful of whole
pepper, one of allspice, one of cloves, and half a spoonful of cayenne pepper. Let it simmer
down one-third, adding a teaspoonful of curry, and a teacupful of mustard. Then simmer half
an hour longer.

FROZEN TOMATO SALAD.

Peel and chop fine a half dozen solid tomatoes, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful
of pepper and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Freeze the pulp solid in an ice cream freezer,
when frozen mold it into fancy shapes and serve on lettuce with a tablespoonful of mayonnaise
over each mold.

TOMATO SOUP.

Boil a quart of tomatoes in a pint of water for twenty minutes and strain; put in a small teaspoonful
of soda, and a quart of milk as it foams. Add a tablespoonful of butter and two tablespoonfuls
of cornstarch rubbed together, plenty of salt and a sprinkling of pepper. Put a tablespoonful
of whipped cream in each soup plate.

STUFFED TOMATOES.

Cut off a transverse slice from the stem end of the tomato; scrape out the inside pulp and
stuff it with mashed potatoes, bread crumbs, parsley and onions, or with any force meat, fish,
or poultry well seasoned with butter, pepper and salt, moistened with a little stock or cream
and the yolk of an egg added to bind it, bake. Or, scoop out the seeds, place the tomatoes
in a saucepan containing a gill of salad oil; next chop about half a bottle of mushrooms, a
handful of parsley and four shallots, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of scraped bacon
or ham, season with pepper, salt, a little chopped thyme and fry five minutes, when add the
yolks of three eggs. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, sprinkle with bread crumbs and bake
until brown.

TOMATO WINE.

Take fresh ripe tomatoes, mash very fine, strain through a thin cloth. To every gallon of the
pure juice add one and one-quarter pounds of sugar and set away in an earthen jar about nine
days or until it has fermented; a little salt will improve its taste; strain again, bottle,
cork tightly and tie down cork. To use it as a drink, to every gallon of fresh sweetened water
add half a tumbler of the wine with a few drops of lemon essence and one has a good substitute
for lemonade.

KIZZIE BECKLY.

BAKED TURNIPS.

Peel and boil some turnips in salted water to which a half teaspoonful of sugar has been added.
Slice them half an inch thick and put them in a stew-pan with two tablespoonfuls of butter
to six or seven good sized turnips, shake them until they are lightly browned. Season with
salt, pepper, a trifle of mace and sugar. Pour over a pint of good brown gravy and serve.

BOILED TURNIPS.

Put three tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan and as soon as it is melted put in one small
onion, minced fine and one quart of turnips cut in dice; stir until they are brown, when add
one teaspoonful of salt, the same of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour and half a saltspoonful
of pepper, stirring for two minutes. Then add a cupful of milk or stock and simmer for twenty
minutes, keeping the saucepan covered. Serve immediately.

TURNIP SALAD.

Slice very thin three or four turnips; put them to soak over night, change the water the next
morning, then cut up very fine, put on salt, pepper, celery salt, or celery seed and vinegar.

VEGETABLE ASPIC MOLDS.

