As he turned the corner of Kerk Street he saw Frankie coming to meet him, and the boy catching
sight of him at the same moment began running and leapt into his arms with a joyous whoop.

'Mother told me to tell you to buy something for dinner before you come home, because there's
nothing in the house.'

'Did she tell you what I was to get?'

She did tell me something, but I forget what it was.  But I know she said to get anything you
like if you couldn't get what she told me to tell you.'

'Well, we'll go and see what we can find,' said Owen.

'If I were you, I'd get a tin of salmon or some eggs and bacon,' suggested Frankie as he skipped
along holding his father's hand.  'We don't want anything that's a lot of trouble to cook,
you know, because Mum's not very well today.'

'Is she up?'

She's been up all the morning, but she's lying down now.  We've done all the work, though.
While she was making the beds I started washing up the cups and saucers without telling her,
but when she came in and saw what a mess I'd made on the floor, she had to stop me doing it,
and she had to change nearly all my clothes as well, because I was almost wet through; but
I managed the wiping up all right when she did the washing, and I swept the passage and put
all my things tidy and made the cat's bed.  And that just reminds me: will you please give
me my penny now?  I promised the cat that I'd bring him back some meat.'

Owen complied with the boy's request, and while the latter went to the butcher's for the meat,
Owen went into the grocer's to get something for dinner, it being arranged that they were to
meet again at the corner of the street.  Owen was at the appointed place first and after waiting
some time and seeing no sign of the boy he decided to go towards the butcher's to meet him.
When he came in sight of the shop he saw the boy standing outside in earnest conversation with
the butcher, a jolly-looking stoutly built man, with a very red face. Owen perceived at once
that the child was trying to explain something, because Frankie had a habit of holding his
head sideways and supplementing his speech by spreading out his fingers and making quaint gestures
with his hands whenever he found it difficult to make himself understood.  The boy was doing
this now, waving one hand about with the fingers and thumb extended wide, and with the other
flourishing a paper parcel which evidently contained the pieces of meat. Presently the man
laughed heartily and after shaking hands with Frankie went into the shop to attend to a customer,
and Frankie rejoined his father.

'That butcher's a very decent sort of chap, you know, Dad,' he said. 'He wouldn't take a penny
for the meat.'

'Is that what you were talking to him about?'

No; we were talking about Socialism.  You see, this is the second time he wouldn't take the
money, and the first time he did it I thought he must be a Socialist, but I didn't ask him
then.  But when he did it again this time I asked him if he was.  So he said, No.  He said
he wasn't quite mad yet.  So I said, "If you think that Socialists are all mad, you're very
much mistaken, because I'm a Socialist myself, and I'm quite sure I'M not mad."  So he said
he knew I was all right, but he didn't understand anything about Socialism himself--only that
it meant sharing out all the money so that everyone could have the same.  So then I told him
that's not Socialism at all!  And when I explained it to him properly and advised him to be
one, he said he'd think about it. So I said if he'd only do that he'd be sure to change over
to our side; and then he laughed and promised to let me know next time he sees me, and I promised
to lend him some literature. You won't mind, will you, Dad?'

'Of course not; when we get home we'll have a look through what we've got and you can take
him some of them.'

'I know!' cried Frankie eagerly.  'The two very best of all.  Happy Britain and England for
the English.'

He knew that these were 'two of the best' because he had often heard his father and mother
say so, and he had noticed that whenever a Socialist friend came to visit them, he was also
of the same opinion.

As a rule on Saturday evenings they all three went out together to do the marketing, but on
this occasion, in consequence of Nora being unwell, Owen and Frankie went by themselves.  The
frequent recurrence of his wife's illness served to increase Owen's pessimism with regard to
the future, and the fact that he was unable to procure for her the comforts she needed was
not calculated to dispel the depression that filled his mind as he reflected that there was
no hope of better times.

In the majority of cases, for a workman there is no hope of advancement.  After he has learnt
his trade and become a 'journeyman' all progress ceases.  He is at the goal.  After he has
been working ten or twenty years he commands no more than he did at first--a bare living wage--sufficient
money to purchase fuel to keep the human machine working.  As he grows older he will have to
be content with even less; and all the time he holds his employment at the caprice and by the
favour of his masters, who regard him merely as a piece of mechanism that enables them to accumulate
money--a thing which they are justified in casting aside as soon as it becomes unprofitable.
And the workman must not only be an efficient money-producing machine, but he must also be
the servile subject of his masters.  If he is not abjectly civil and humble, if he will not
submit tamely to insult, indignity, and every form of contemptuous treatment that occasion
makes possible, he can be dismissed, and replaced in a moment by one of the crowd of unemployed
who are always waiting for his job.  This is the status of the majority of the 'Heirs of all
the ages' under the present system.

As he walked through the crowded streets holding Frankie by the hand, Owen thought that to
voluntarily continue to live such a life as this betokened a degraded mind.  To allow one's
child to grow up to suffer it in turn was an act of callous, criminal cruelty.

In this matter he held different opinions from most of his fellow workmen.  The greater number
of them were quite willing and content that their children should be made into beasts of burden
for the benefit of other people.  As he looked down upon the little, frail figure trotting
along by his side, Owen thought for the thousandth time that it would be far better for the
child to die now: he would never be fit to be a soldier in the ferocious Christian Battle of Life.

Then he remembered Nora.  Although she was always brave, and never complained, he knew that
her life was one of almost incessant physical suffering; and as for himself he was tired and
sick of it all.  He had been working like a slave all his life and there was nothing to show
for it--there never would be anything to show for it.  He thought of the man who had killed
his wife and children.  The jury had returned the usual verdict, 'Temporary Insanity'.  It
never seemed to occur to these people that the truth was that to continue to suffer hopelessly
like this was evidence of permanent insanity.

But supposing that bodily death was not the end.  Suppose there was some kind of a God?  If
there were, it wasn't unreasonable to think that the Being who was capable of creating such
a world as this and who seemed so callously indifferent to the unhappiness of His creatures,
would also be capable of devising and creating the other Hell that most people believed in.

Although it was December the evening was mild and clear.  The full moon deluged the town with
silvery light, and the cloudless sky was jewelled with myriads of glittering stars.

