JOHNSON'S WORKS.

THE RAMBLER.

VOL. II.

THE

WORKS

OF

SAMUEL JOHNSON, LL.D,

IN NINE VOLUMES.

VOLUME THE THIRD.

MDCCCXXV.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

NUMB.

106. The vanity of an author's expectations.--Reasons why good authors
     are sometimes neglected
107. Properantia's hopes of a year of confusion. The misery of
     prostitutes
108. Life sufficient to all purposes if well employed
109. The education of a fop
110. Repentance stated and explained. Retirement and abstinence useful
     to repentance
111. Youth made unfortunate by its haste and eagerness
112. Too much nicety not to be indulged. The character of Eriphile
113. The history of Hymenæus's courtship
114. The necessity of proportioning punishments to crimes
115. The sequel of Hymenæus's courtship
116. The young trader's attempt at politeness
117. The advantages of living in a garret
118. The narrowness of fame
119. Tranquilla's account of her lovers, opposed to Hymenæus
120. The history of Almamoulin the son of Nouradin
121. The dangers of imitation. The impropriety of imitating Spenser
122. A criticism on the English historians
123. The young trader turned gentleman
124. The lady's misery in a summer retirement
125. The difficulty of defining comedy. Tragick and comick sentiments
     confounded
126. The universality of cowardice. The impropriety of extorting praise.
     The impertinence of an astronomer
127. Diligence too soon relaxed. Necessity of perseverance
128. Anxiety universal. The unhappiness of a wit and a fine lady
129. The folly of cowardice and inactivity
130. The history of a beauty
131. Desire of gain the general passion
132. The difficulty of educating a young nobleman
133. The miseries of a beauty defaced
134. Idleness an anxious and miserable state
135. The folly of annual retreats into the country
136. The meanness and mischief of indiscriminate dedication
137. The necessity of literary courage
138. Original characters to be found in the country. The character of
     Mrs. Busy
139. A critical examination of Samson Agonistes
140. The criticism continued
141. The danger of attempting wit in conversation. The character of
     Papilius
142. An account of squire Bluster
143. The criterions of plagiarism
144. The difficulty of raising reputation. The various species of
     detractors
145. Petty writers not to be despised
146. An account of an author travelling in quest of his own character.
     The uncertainty of fame
147. The courtier's esteem of assurance
148. The cruelty of parental tyranny
149. Benefits not always entitled to gratitude
150. Adversity useful to the acquisition of knowledge
151. The climactericks of the mind
152. Criticism on epistolary writings
153. The treatment incurred by loss of fortune
154. The inefficacy of genius without learning
155. The usefulness of advice. The danger of habits. The necessity of
     reviewing life
156. The laws of writing not always indisputable. Reflections on
     tragi-comedy
157. The scholar's complaint of his own bashfulness
158. Rules of writing drawn from examples. Those examples often mistaken
159. The nature and remedies of bashfulness
160. Rules for the choice of associates
161. The revolutions of a garret
162. Old men in danger of falling into pupilage. The conduct of
     Thrasybulus
163. The mischiefs of following a patron
164. Praise universally desired. The failings of eminent men often
     imitated
165. The impotence of wealth. The visit of Scrotinus to the place of his
     nativity
166. Favour not easily gained by the poor
167. The marriage of Hymenæus and Tranquilla
168. Poetry debased by mean expressions. An example from Shakespeare
169. Labour necessary to excellence
170.

No. 106. SATURDAY, MARCH 23, 1751.

  Opinionum commenta delet dies, naturæ judicia Confirmat.
  CICERO, vi. Att. 1.

  Time obliterates the fictions of opinion, and confirms the decisions
  of nature.

It is necessary to the success of flattery, that it be accommodated to particular circumstances
or characters, and enter the heart on that side where the passions stand ready to receive it.
A lady seldom listens with attention to any praise but that of her beauty; a merchant always
expects to hear of his influence at the bank, his importance on the exchange, the height of
his credit, and the extent of his traffick: and the author will scarcely be pleased without
lamentations of the neglect of learning, the conspiracies against genius, and the slow progress
of merit, or some praises of the magnanimity of those who encounter poverty and contempt in
the cause of knowledge, and trust for the reward of their labours to the judgment and gratitude
of posterity.

An assurance of unfading laurels, and immortal reputation, is the settled reciprocation of
civility between amicable writers. To raise monuments more durable than brass, and more conspicuous
than pyramids, has been long the common boast of literature; but, among the innumerable architects
that erect columns to themselves, far the greater part, either for want of durable materials,
or of art to dispose them, see their edifices perish as they are towering to completion, and
those few that for a while attract the eye of mankind, are generally weak in the foundation,
and soon sink by the saps of time.

No place affords a more striking conviction of the vanity of human hopes, than a publick library;
for who can see the wall crowded on every side by mighty volumes, the works of laborious meditation,
and accurate inquiry, now scarcely known but by the catalogue, and preserved only to increase
the pomp of learning, without considering how many hours have been wasted in vain endeavours,
how often imagination has anticipated the praises of futurity, how many statues have risen
to the eye of vanity, how many ideal converts have elevated zeal, how often wit has exulted
in the eternal infamy of his antagonists, and dogmatism has delighted in the gradual advances
of his authority, the immutability of his decrees, and the perpetuity of his power?

  --Non unquam dedit
  Documenta fors majora, quam frugili loco
  Starent superbi.

  Insulting chance ne'er call'd with louder voice,
  On swelling mortals to be proud no more.

Of the innumerable authors whose performances are thus treasured up in magnificent obscurity,
most are forgotten, because they never deserved to be remembered, and owed the honours which
they once obtained, not to judgment or to genius, to labour or to art, but to the prejudice
of faction, the stratagem of intrigue, or the servility of adulation.

Nothing is more common than to find men whose works are now totally neglected, mentioned with
praises by their contemporaries, as the oracles of their age, and the legislators of science.
Curiosity is naturally excited, their volumes after long inquiry are found, but seldom reward
the labour of the search. Every period of time has produced these bubbles of artificial fame,
which are kept up a while by the breath of fashion, and then break at once, and are annihilated.
The learned often bewail the loss of ancient writers whose characters have survived their works;
but, perhaps, if we could now retrieve them, we should find them only the Granvilles, Montagues,
Stepneys, and Sheffields of their time, and wonder by what infatuation or caprice they could
be raised to notice.

It cannot, however, be denied, that many have sunk into oblivion, whom it were unjust to number
with this despicable class. Various kinds of literary fame seem destined to various measures
of duration. Some spread into exuberance with a very speedy growth, but soon wither and decay;
some rise more slowly, but last long. Parnassus has its flowers of transient fragrance, as
well as its oaks of towering height, and its laurels of eternal verdure.

Among those whose reputation is exhausted in a short time by its own luxuriance, are the writers
who take advantage of present incidents or characters which strongly interest the passions,
and engage universal attention. It is not difficult to obtain readers, when we discuss a question
which every one is desirous to understand, which is debated in every assembly, and has divided
the nation into parties; or when we display the faults or virtues of him whose publick conduct
has made almost every man his enemy or his friend. To the quick circulation of such productions
all the motives of interest and vanity concur; the disputant enlarges his knowledge, the zealot
animates his passion, and every man is desirous to inform himself concerning affairs so vehemently
agitated and variously represented.

It is scarcely to be imagined, through how many subordinations of interest the ardour of party
is diffused; and what multitudes fancy themselves affected by every satire or panegyrick on
a man of eminence. Whoever has, at any time, taken occasion to mention him with praise or blame,
whoever happens to love or hate any of his adherents, as he wishes to confirm his opinion,
and to strengthen his party, will diligently peruse every paper from which he can hope for
sentiments like his own. An object, however small in itself, if placed near to the eye, will
engross all the rays of light; and a transaction, however trivial, swells into importance when
it presses immediately on our attention. He that shall peruse the political pamphlets of any
past reign, will wonder why they were so eagerly read, or so loudly praised. Many of the performances
which had power to inflame factions, and fill a kingdom with confusion, have now very little
effect upon a frigid critick; and the time is coming, when the compositions of later hirelings
shall lie equally despised. In proportion as those who write on temporary subjects, are exalted
above their merit at first, they are afterwards depressed below it; nor can the brightest elegance
of diction, or most artful subtilty of reasoning, hope for so much esteem from those whose
regard is no longer quickened by curiosity or pride.

It is, indeed, the fate of controvertists, even when they contend for philosophical or theological
truth, to be soon laid aside and slighted. Either the question is decided, and there is no
more place for doubt and opposition; or mankind despair of understanding it, and grow weary
of disturbance, content themselves with quiet ignorance, and refuse to be harassed with labours
which they have no hopes of recompensing with knowledge.

The authors of new discoveries may surely expect to be reckoned among those whose writings
are secure of veneration: yet it often happens that the general reception of a doctrine obscures
the books in which it was delivered. When any tenet is generally received and adopted as an
incontrovertible principle, we seldom look back to the arguments upon which it was first established,
or can bear that tediousness of deduction, and multiplicity of evidence, by which its author
was forced to reconcile it to prejudice, and fortify it in the weakness of novelty against
obstinacy and envy.

It is well known how much of our philosophy is derived from Boyle's discovery of the qualities
of the air; yet of those who now adopt or enlarge his theory, very few have read the detail
of his experiments. His name is, indeed, reverenced; but his works are neglected; we are contented
to know, that he conquered his opponents, without inquiring what cavils were produced against
him, or by what proofs they were confuted.

Some writers apply themselves to studies boundless and inexhaustible, as experiments in natural
philosophy. These are always lost in successive compilations, as new advances are made, and
former observations become more familiar. Others spend their lives in remarks on language,
or explanations of antiquities, and only afford materials for lexicographers and commentators,
who are themselves overwhelmed by subsequent collectors, that equally destroy the memory of
their predecessors by amplification, transposition, or contraction. Every new system of nature
gives birth to a swarm of expositors, whose business is to explain and illustrate it, and who
can hope to exist no longer than the founder of their sect preserves his reputation.

There are, indeed, few kinds of composition from which an author, however learned or ingenious,
can hope a long continuance of fame. He who has carefully studied human nature, and can well
describe it, may with most reason flatter his ambition. Bacon, among all his pretensions to
the regard of posterity, seems to have pleased himself chiefly with his Essays, which come
home to men's business and bosoms, and of which, therefore, he declares his expectation, that
they will live as long as books last. It may, however, satisfy an honest and benevolent mind
to have been useful, though less conspicuous; nor will he that extends his hope to higher rewards,
be so much anxious to obtain praise, as to discharge the duty which Providence assigns him.

No. 107. TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 1751.

  Alternis igitur contendere versibns ambo
  Coepere: alternos Musoe meminisse volebant. VIRG. Ec. vii. 18

  On themes alternate now the swains recite;
  The muses in alternate themes delight. ELPHINSTON.

Among the various censures, which the unavoidable comparison of my performances with those
of my predecessors has produced, there is none more general than that of uniformity. Many of
my readers remark the want of those changes of colours, which formerly fed the attention with
unexhausted novelty, and of that intermixture of subjects, or alternation of manner, by which
other writers relieved weariness, and awakened expectation.

I have, indeed, hitherto avoided the practice of uniting gay and solemn subjects in the same
paper, because it seems absurd for an author to counteract himself, to press at once with equal
force upon both parts of the intellectual balance, or give medicines, which, like the double
poison of Dryden, destroy the force of one another. I have endeavoured sometimes to divert,
and sometimes to elevate; but have imagined it an useless attempt to disturb merriment by solemnity,
or interrupt seriousness by drollery. Yet I shall this day publish two letters of very different
tendency, which I hope, like tragi-comedy, may chance to please even when they are not critically
approved.

TO THE RAMBLER.

DEAR SIR,

Though, as my mamma tells me, I am too young to talk at the table, I have great pleasure in
listening to the conversation of learned men, especially when they discourse of things which
I do not understand; and have, therefore, been of late particularly delighted with many disputes
about the alteration of the stile, which, they say, is to be made by act of parliament.

One day when my mamma was gone out of the room, I asked a very great scholar what the style
was. He told me he was afraid I should hardly understand him when he informed me, that it was
the stated and established method of computing time. It was not, indeed, likely that I should
understand him; for I never yet knew time computed in my life, nor can imagine why we should
be at so much trouble to count what we cannot keep. He did not tell me whether we are to count
the time past, or the time to come; but I have considered them both by myself, and think it
as foolish to count time that is gone, as money that is spent; and as for the time which is
to come, it only seems further off by counting; and therefore, when any pleasure is promised
me, I always think of the time as little as I can.

I have since listened very attentively to every one that talked upon this subject, of whom
the greater part seem not to understand it better than myself; for though they often hint how
much the nation has been mistaken, and rejoice that we are at last growing wiser than our ancestors,
I have never been able to discover from them, that any body has died sooner, or been married
later, for counting time wrong; and, therefore, I began to fancy that there was a great bustle
with little consequence.

At last, two friends of my papa, Mr. Cycle, and Mr. Starlight, being, it seems, both of high
learning, and able to make an almanack, began to talk about the new style. Sweet Mr. Starlight--I
am sure I shall love his name as long as I live; for he told Cycle roundly, with a fierce look,
that we should never be right without a year of confusion. Dear Mr. Rambler, did you ever hear
any thing so charming? a whole year of confusion! When there has been a rout at mamma's, I
have thought one night of confusion worth a thousand nights of rest; and if I can but see a
year of confusion, a whole year, of cards in one room, and dancings in another, here a feast,
and there a masquerade, and plays, and coaches, and hurries, and messages, and milliners, and
raps at the door, and visits, and frolicks, and new fashions, I shall not care what they do
with the rest of the time, nor whether they count it by the old style or the new; for I am
resolved to break loose from the nursery in the tumult, and play my part among the rest; and
it will be strange if I cannot get a husband and a chariot in the year of confusion.

Cycle, who is neither so young nor so handsome as Starlight, very gravely maintained, that
all the perplexity may he avoided by leaping over eleven days in the reckoning; and, indeed,
if it should come only to this, I think the new style is a delightful thing; for my mamma says
I shall go to court when I am sixteen, and if they can but contrive often to leap over eleven
days together, the months of restraint will soon be at an end. It is strange, that with all
the plots that have been laid against time, they could never kill it by act of parliament before.
Dear sir, if you have any vote or interest, get them but for once to destroy eleven months,
and then I shall be as old as some married ladies. But this is desired only if you think they
will not comply with Mr. Starlight's scheme; for nothing surely could please me like a year
of confusion, when I shall no longer be fixed this hour to my pen, and the next to my needle,
or wait at home for the dancing-master one day, and the next for the musick-master; but run
from ball to ball, and from drum to drum; and spend all my time without tasks, and without
account, and go out without telling whither, and come home without regard to prescribed hours,
or family rules.

I am, sir,

Your humble servant,

PROPERANTIA.

MR. RAMBLER,

I was seized this morning with an unusual pensiveness, and, finding that books only served
to heighten it, took a ramble into the fields, in hopes of relief and invigoration from the
keenness of the air and brightness of the sun.

As I wandered wrapped up in thought, my eyes were struck with the hospital for the reception
of deserted infants, which I surveyed with pleasure, till, by a natural train of sentiment,
I began to reflect on the fate of the mothers. For to what shelter can they fly? Only to the
arms of their betrayer, which, perhaps, are now no longer open to receive them; and then how
quick must be the transition from deluded virtue to shameless guilt, and from shameless guilt
to hopeless wretchedness?

The anguish that I felt, left me no rest till I had, by your means, addressed myself to the
publick on behalf of those forlorn creatures, the women of the town; whose misery here might
satisfy the most rigorous censor, and whose participation of our common nature might surely
induce us to endeavour, at least, their preservation from eternal punishment.

These were all once, if not virtuous, at least innocent; and might still have continued blameless
and easy, but for the arts and insinuations of those whose rank, fortune, or education, furnished
them with means to corrupt or to delude them. Let the libertine reflect a moment on the situation
of that woman, who, being forsaken by her betrayer, is reduced to the necessity of turning
prostitute for bread, and judge of the enormity of his guilt by the evils which it produces.

It cannot be doubted but that numbers follow this dreadful course of life, with shame, horrour,
and regret; but where can they hope for refuge: "The world is not their friend, nor the world's
law." Their sighs, and tears, and groans, are criminal in the eye of their tyrants, the bully
and the bawd, who fatten on their misery, and threaten them with want or a gaol, if they show
the least design of escaping from their bondage.

"To wipe all tears from off all faces," is a task too hard for mortals; but to alleviate misfortunes
is often within the most limited power: yet the opportunities which every day affords of relieving
the most wretched of human beings are overlooked and neglected, with equal disregard of policy
and goodness.

There are places, indeed, set apart, to which these unhappy creatures may resort, when the
diseases of incontinence seize upon them; but if they obtain a cure, to what are they reduced?
Either to return with the small remains of beauty to their former guilt, or perish in the streets
with nakedness and hunger.

How frequently have the gay and thoughtless, in their evening frolicks, seen a band of those
miserable females, covered with rags, shivering with cold, and pining with hunger; and, without
either pitying their calamities, or reflecting upon the cruelty of those who, perhaps, first
seduced them by caresses of fondness, or magnificence of promises, go on to reduce others to
the same wretchedness by the same means!

To stop the increase of this deplorable multitude, is undoubtedly the first and most pressing
consideration. To prevent evil is the great end of government, the end for which vigilance
and severity are properly employed. But surely those whom passion or interest has already depraved,
have some claim to compassion, from beings equally frail and fallible with themselves. Nor
will they long groan in their present afflictions, if none were to refuse them relief, but
those that owe their exemption from the same distress only to their wisdom and their virtue.

I am, &c.

AMICUS[a].

[Footnote a: The letter from Amicus was from an unknown correspondent. It breathes a tenderness
of spirit worthy of Johnson himself. But he practised the lesson which it inculcates;--a harder
task! Sterne could write sentiment.]

No. 108. SATURDAY, MARCH 30, 1751.

  --Sapere aude:
  Incipe. Vivendi recte qui prorogat horam,
  Rusticus expectat dum defluat amnis; at ille
  Labitur et labetur in omne volubilis aevum. HOR. Lib. i. Ep. ii. 39.

  Begin, be bold, and venture to be wise;
  He who defers this work from day to day,
  Does on a river's bank expecting stay,
  Till the whole stream, which stopp'd him, should be gone,
  That runs, and as it runs, for ever will run on. COWLEY.

An ancient poet, unreasonably discontented at the present state of things, which his system
of opinions obliged him to represent in its worst form, has observed of the earth, "that its
greater part is covered by the uninhabitable ocean; that of the rest some is encumbered with
naked mountains, and some lost under barren sands; some scorched with unintermitted heat, and
some petrified with perpetual frost; so that only a few regions remain for the production of
fruits, the pasture of cattle, and the accommodation of man."

The same observation may be transferred to the time allotted us in our present state. When
we have deducted all that is absorbed in sleep, all that is inevitably appropriated to the
demands of nature, or irresistibly engrossed by the tyranny of custom; all that passes in regulating
the superficial decorations of life, or is given up in the reciprocations of civility to the
disposal of others; all that is torn from us by the violence of disease, or stolen imperceptibly
away by lassitude and languor; we shall find that part of our duration very small of which
we can truly call ourselves masters, or which we can spend wholly at our own choice. Many of
our hours are lost in a rotation of petty cares, in a constant recurrence of the same employments;
many of our provisions for ease or happiness are always exhausted by the present day; and a
great part of our existence serves no other purpose, than that of enabling us to enjoy the rest.

Of the few moments which are left in our disposal, it may reasonably be expected, that we should
be so frugal, as to let none of them slip from us without some equivalent; and perhaps it might
be found, that as the earth, however straitened by rocks and waters, is capable of producing
more than all its inhabitants are able to consume, our lives, though much contracted by incidental
distraction, would yet afford us a large space vacant to the exercise of reason and virtue;
that we want not time, but diligence, for great performances; and that we squander much of
our allowance, even while we think it sparing and insufficient.

This natural and necessary comminution of our lives, perhaps, often makes us insensible of
the negligence with which we suffer them to slide away. We never consider ourselves as possessed
at once of time sufficient for any great design, and therefore indulge ourselves, in fortuitous
amusements. We think it unnecessary to take an account of a few supernumerary moments, which,
however employed, could have produced little advantage, and which were exposed to a thousand
chances of disturbance and interruption.

It is observable, that, either by nature or by habit, our faculties are fitted to images of
a certain extent, to which we adjust great things by division, and little things by accumulation.
Of extensive surfaces we can only take a survey, as the parts succeed one another; and atoms
we cannot perceive till they are united into masses. Thus we break the vast periods of time
into centuries and years; and thus, if we would know the amount of moments, we must agglomerate
them into days and weeks.

The proverbial oracles of our parsimonious ancestors have informed us, that the fatal waste
of fortune is by small expenses, by the profusion of sums too little singly to alarm our caution,
and which we never suffer ourselves to consider together. Of the same kind is the prodigality
of life; he that hopes to look back hereafter with satisfaction upon past years, must learn
to know the present value of single minutes, and endeavour to let no particle of time fall
useless to the ground.

It is usual for those who are advised to the attainment of any new qualification, to look upon
themselves as required to change the general course of their conduct, to dismiss business,
and exclude pleasure, and to devote their days and nights to a particular attention. But all
common degrees of excellence are attainable at a lower price; he that should steadily and resolutely
assign to any science or language those interstitial vacancies which intervene in the most
crowded variety of diversion or employment, would find every day new irradiations of knowledge,
and discover how much more is to be hoped from frequency and perseverance, than from violent
efforts and sudden desires; efforts which are soon remitted when they encounter difficulty,
and desires, which, if they are indulged too often, will shake off the authority of reason,
and range capriciously from one object to another.

The disposition to defer every important design to a time of leisure, and a state of settled
uniformity, proceeds generally from a false estimate of the human powers. If we except those
gigantic and stupendous intelligences who are said to grasp a system by intuition, and bound
forward from one series of conclusions to another, without regular steps through intermediate
propositions, the most successful students make their advances in knowledge by short flights,
between each of which the mind may lie at rest. For every single act of progression a short
time is sufficient; and it is only necessary, that whenever that time is afforded, it be well
employed.

Few minds will be long confined to severe and laborious meditation; and when a successful attack
on knowledge has been made, the student recreates himself with the contemplation of his conquest,
and forbears another incursion, till the new-acquired truth has become familiar, and his curiosity
calls upon him for fresh gratifications. Whether the time of intermission is spent in company,
or in solitude, in necessary business, or in voluntary levities, the understanding is equally
abstracted from the object of inquiry; but, perhaps, if it be detained by occupations less
pleasing, it returns again to study with greater alacrity than when it is glutted with ideal
pleasures, and surfeited with intemperance of application. He that will not suffer himself
to be discouraged by fancied impossibilities, may sometimes find his abilities invigorated
by the necessity of exerting them in short intervals, as the force of a current is increased
by the contraction of its channel.

From some cause like this, it has probably proceeded, that, among those who have contributed
to the advancement of learning, many have risen to eminence in opposition to all the obstacles
which external circumstances could place in their way, amidst the tumult of business, the distresses
of poverty, or the dissipations of a wandering and unsettled state. A great part of the life
of Erasmus was one continual peregrination; ill supplied with the gifts of fortune, and led
from city to city, and from kingdom to kingdom, by the hopes of patrons and preferment, hopes
which always flattered and always deceived him; he yet found means, by unshaken constancy,
and a vigilant improvement of those hours, which, in the midst of the most restless activity,
will remain unengaged, to write more than another in the same condition would have hoped to
read. Compelled by want to attendance and solicitation, and so much versed in common life,
that he has transmitted to us the most perfect delineation of the manners of his age, he joined
to his knowledge of the world such application to books, that he will stand for ever in the
first rank of literary heroes. How this proficiency was obtained he sufficiently discovers,
by informing us, that the "Praise of Folly," one of his most celebrated performances, was composed
by him on the road to Italy; ne totum illud tempus quo equo fuit insidendum, illiteratis fabulis
terreretur: "lest the hours which he was obliged to spend on horseback should be tattled away
without regard to literature."

An Italian philosopher expressed in his motto, that time was his estate; an estate, indeed,
which will produce nothing without cultivation, but will always abundantly repay the labours
of industry, and satisfy the most extensive desires, if no part of it be suffered to lie waste
by negligence, to be over-run with noxious plants, or laid out for shew, rather than for use.

No. 109. TUESDAY, APRIL 2, 1751.

  Gratum est, quod patriæ civem populoque dedisti,
  Si facis, ut patriæ sit idoneus, utilis agris,
  Utilis et bellorum et pacis rebus agendis.
  Plurimum enim intererit, quibus artibus, et quibus hunc tu
  Moribus instituas Juv. SAT, xiv. 70.

  Grateful the gift! a member to the state,
  If you that member useful shall create;
  Train'd both to war, and, when the war shall cease,
  As fond, as fit t'improve the arts of peace.
  For much it boots which way you train your boy,
  The hopeful object of your future joy. ELPHINSTON.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

Though you seem to have taken a view sufficiently extensive of the miseries of life, and have
employed much of your speculation on mournful subjects, you have not yet exhausted the whole
stock of human infelicity. There is still a species of wretchedness which escapes your observation,
though it might supply you with many sage remarks, and salutary cautions.

I cannot but imagine the start of attention awakened by this welcome hint; and at this instant
see the Rambler snuffing his candle, rubbing his spectacles, stirring his fire, locking out
interruption, and settling himself in his easy chair, that he may enjoy a new calamity without
disturbance. For, whether it be that continued sickness or misfortune has acquainted you only
with the bitterness of being; or that you imagine none but yourself able to discover what I
suppose has been seen and felt by all the inhabitants of the world; whether you intend your
writings as antidotal to the levity and merriment with which your rivals endeavour to attract
the favour of the publick; or fancy that you have some particular powers of dolorous declamation,
and warble out your groans with uncommon elegance or energy; it is certain, that whatever be
your subject, melancholy for the most part bursts in upon your speculation, your gaiety is
quickly overcast, and though your readers may be flattered with hopes of pleasantry, they are
seldom dismissed but with heavy hearts.

That I may therefore gratify you with an imitation of your own syllables of sadness, I will
inform you that I was condemned by some disastrous influence to be an only son, born to the
apparent prospect of a large fortune, and allotted to my parents at that time of life when
satiety of common diversions allows the mind to indulge parental affection with greater intenseness.
My birth was celebrated by the tenants with feasts, and dances, and bag-pipes: congratulations
were sent from every family within ten miles round; and my parents discovered in my first cries
such tokens of future virtue and understanding, that they declared themselves determined to
devote the remaining part of life to my happiness and the increase of their estate.

The abilities of my father and mother were not perceptibly unequal, and education had given
neither much advantage over the other. They had both kept good company, rattled in chariots,
glittered in playhouses, and danced at court, and were both expert in the games that were in
their time called in as auxiliaries against the intrusion of thought.

When there is such a parity between two persons associated for life, the dejection which the
husband, if he be not completely stupid, must always suffer for want of superiority, sinks
him to submissiveness. My mamma therefore governed the family without controul; and except
that my father still retained some authority in the stables, and, now and then, after a supernumerary
bottle, broke a looking-glass or china dish to prove his sovereignty, the whole course of the
year was regulated by her direction, the servants received from her all their orders, and the
tenants were continued or dismissed at her discretion.

She, therefore, thought herself entitled to the superintendence of her son's education; and
when my father, at the instigation of the parson, faintly proposed that I should be sent to
school, very positively told him, that she should not suffer so fine a child to be ruined;
that she never knew any boys at a grammar-school that could come into a room without blushing,
or sit at table without some awkward uneasiness; that they were always putting themselves into
danger by boisterous plays, or vitiating their behaviour with mean company, and that, for her
part, she would rather follow me to the grave, than see me tear my clothes, and hang down my
head, and sneak about with dirty shoes, and blotted fingers, my hair unpowdered, and my hat
uncocked.

My father, who had no other end in his proposal than to appear wise and manly, soon acquiesced,
since I was not to live by my learning; for, indeed, he had known very few students that had
not some stiffness in their manner. They, therefore, agreed, that a domestick tutor should
be procured, and hired an honest gentleman of mean conversation and narrow sentiments, but
whom, having passed the common forms of literary education, they implicitly concluded qualified
to teach all that was to be learned from a scholar. He thought himself sufficiently exalted
by being placed at the same table with his pupil, and had no other view than to perpetuate
his felicity by the utmost flexibility of submission to all my mother's opinions and caprices.
He frequently took away my book, lest I should mope with too much application, charged me never
to write without turning up my ruffles, and generally brushed my coat before he dismissed me
into the parlour. He had no occasion to complain of too burdensome an employment: for my mother
very judiciously considered, that I was not likely to grow politer in his company, and suffered
me not to pass any more time in his apartment than my lesson required. When I was summoned
to my task, she enjoined me not to get any of my tutor's ways, who was seldom mentioned before
me but for practices to be avoided. I was every moment admonished not to lean on my chair,
cross my legs, or swing my hands like my tutor; and once my mother very seriously deliberated
upon his total dismission, because I began, she said, to learn his manner of sticking on my
hat, and had his bend in my shoulders, and his totter in my gait.

Such, however, was her care, that I escaped all these depravities; and when I was only twelve
years old, had rid myself of every appearance of childish diffidence. I was celebrated round
the country for the petulance of my remarks, and the quickness of my replies; and many a scholar,
five years older than myself, have I dashed into confusion by the steadiness of my countenance,
silenced by my readiness of repartee, and tortured with envy by the address with which I picked
up a fan, presented a snuff-box, or received an empty tea-cup.

At fourteen I was completely skilled in all the niceties of dress, and I could not only enumerate
all the variety of silks, and distinguish the product of a French loom, but dart my eye through
a numerous company, and observe every deviation from the reigning mode. I was universally skilful
in all the changes of expensive finery; but as every one, they say, has something to which
he is particularly born, was eminently knowing in Brussels' lace.

The next year saw me advanced to the trust and power of adjusting the ceremonial of an assembly.
All received their partners from my hand, and to me every stranger applied for introduction.
My heart now disdained the instructions of a tutor, who was rewarded with a small annuity for
life, and left me qualified, in my own opinion, to govern myself.

In a short time I came to London, and as my father was well known among the higher classes
of life, soon obtained admission to the most splendid assemblies and most crowded card-tables.
Here I found myself universally caressed and applauded; the ladies praised the fancy of my
clothes, the beauty of my form, and the softness of my voice; endeavoured in every place to
force themselves to my notice; and invited, by a thousand oblique solicitations, my attendance
to the playhouse, and my salutations in the park. I was now happy to the utmost extent of my
conception; I passed every morning in dress, every afternoon in visits, and every night in
some select assemblies, where neither care nor knowledge were suffered to molest us.

After a few years, however, these delights became familiar, and I had leisure to look round
me with more attention. I then found that my flatterers had very little power to relieve the
languor of satiety, or recreate weariness, by varied amusement; and therefore endeavoured to
enlarge the sphere of my pleasures, and to try what satisfaction might be found in the society
of men. I will not deny the mortification with which I perceived, that every man whose name
I had heard mentioned with respect, received me with a kind of tenderness, nearly bordering
on compassion; and that those whose reputation was not well established, thought it necessary
to justify their understandings, by treating me with contempt. One of these witlings elevated
his crest, by asking me in a full coffee-house the price of patches; and another whispered
that he wondered why Miss Frisk did not keep me that afternoon to watch her squirrel.

When I found myself thus hunted from all masculine conversation by those who were themselves
barely admitted, I returned to the ladies, and resolved to dedicate my life to their service
and their pleasure. But I find that I have now lost my charms. Of those with whom I entered
the gay world, some are married, some have retired, and some have so much changed their opinion,
that they scarcely pay any regard to my civilities, if there is any other man in the place.
The new flight of beauties to whom I have made my addresses, suffer me to pay the treat, and
then titter with boys. So that I now find myself welcome only to a few grave ladies, who, unacquainted
with all that gives either use or dignity to life, are content to pass their hours between
their bed and their cards, without esteem from the old, or reverence from the young.

I cannot but think, Mr. Rambler, that I have reason to complain; for surely the females ought
to pay some regard to the age of him whose youth was passed in endeavours to please them. They
that encourage folly in the boy, have no right to punish it in the man. Yet I find that, though
they lavish their first fondness upon pertness and gaiety, they soon transfer their regard
to other qualities, and ungratefully abandon their adorers to dream out their last years in
stupidity and contempt.

I am, &c.

FLORENTULUS.

No. 110. SATURDAY, APRIL 6, 1751

  At nobis vitæ dominum quærentibus unum
  Lux iter est, et clara dies, et gratia simplex.
  Spem sequimur, gradimurque fide, fruimurque futuris,
  Ad quæ non veniunt præsentis gaudia vitæ,
  Nec currunt pariter capta, et capienda voluptus.
  PRUDENTIUS, Cont. Sym. ii. 904.

  We through this maze of life one Lord obey;
  Whose light and grace unerring lead the way.
  By hope and faith secure of future bliss,
  Gladly the joys of present life we miss:
  For baffled mortals still attempt in vain,
  Present and future bliss at once to gain. F. LEWIS.

That to please the Lord and Father of the universe, is the supreme interest of created and
dependent beings, as it is easily proved, has been universally confessed; and since all rational
agents are conscious of having neglected or violated the duties prescribed to them, the fear
of being rejected, or punished by God, has always burdened the human mind. The expiation of
crimes, and renovation of the forfeited hopes of divine favour, therefore constitute a large
part of every religion.

The various methods of propitiation and atonement which fear and folly have dictated, or artifice
and interest tolerated in the different parts of the world, however they may sometimes reproach
or degrade humanity, at least shew the general consent of all ages and nations in their opinion
of the placability of the divine nature. That God will forgive, may, indeed, be established
as the first and fundamental truth of religion; for, though the knowledge of his existence
is the origin of philosophy, yet, without the belief of his mercy, it would have little influence
upon our moral conduct. There could be no prospect of enjoying the protection or regard of
him, whom the least deviation from rectitude made inexorable for ever; and every man would
naturally withdraw his thoughts from the contemplation of a Creator, whom he must consider
as a governor too pure to be pleased, and too severe to be pacified; as an enemy infinitely
wise, and infinitely powerful, whom he could neither deceive, escape, nor resist.

Where there is no hope, there can be no endeavour. A constant and unfailing obedience is above
the reach of terrestrial diligence; and therefore the progress of life could only have been
the natural descent of negligent despair from crime to crime, had not the universal persuasion
of forgiveness, to be obtained by proper means of reconciliation, recalled those to the paths
of virtue, whom their passions had solicited aside; and animated to new attempts, and firmer
perseverance, those whom difficulty had discouraged, or negligence surprised.

In times and regions so disjoined from each other, that there can scarcely be imagined any
communication of sentiments either by commerce or tradition, has prevailed a general and uniform
expectation of propitiating God by corporal austerities, of anticipating his vengeance by voluntary
inflictions, and appeasing his justice by a speedy and cheerful submission to a less penalty,
when a greater is incurred.

Incorporated minds will always feel some inclination towards exterior acts and ritual observances.
Ideas not represented by sensible objects are fleeting, variable, and evanescent. We are not
able to judge of the degree of conviction which operated at any particular time upon our own
thoughts, but as it is recorded by some certain and definite effect. He that reviews his life
in order to determine the probability of his acceptance with God, if he could once establish
the necessary proportion between crimes and sufferings, might securely rest upon his performance
of the expiation; but while safety remains the reward only of mental purity, he is always afraid
lest he should decide too soon in his own favour; lest he should not have felt the pangs of
true contrition; lest he should mistake satiety for detestation, or imagine that his passions
are subdued when they are only sleeping.

From this natural and reasonable diffidence arose, in humble and timorous piety, a disposition
to confound penance with repentance, to repose on human determinations, and to receive from
some judicial sentence the stated and regular assignment of reconciliatory pain. We are never
willing to be without resource: we seek in the knowledge of others a succour for our own ignorance,
and are ready to trust any that will undertake to direct us when we have no confidence in ourselves.

This desire to ascertain by some outward marks the state of the soul, and this willingness
to calm the conscience by some settled method, have produced, as they are diversified in their
effects by various tempers and principles, most of the disquisitions and rules, the doubts
and solutions, that have embarrassed the doctrine of repentance, and perplexed tender and flexible
minds with innumerable scruples concerning the necessary measures of sorrow, and adequate degrees
of self-abhorrence; and these rules, corrupted by fraud, or debased by credulity, have, by
the common resiliency of the mind from one extreme to another, incited others to an open contempt
of all subsidiary ordinances, all prudential caution, and the whole discipline of regulated piety.

Repentance, however difficult to be practised, is, if it be explained without superstition,
easily understood. Repentance is the relinquishment of any practice, from the conviction that
it has offended God. Sorrow, and fear, and anxiety, are properly not parts, but adjuncts of
repentance; yet they are too closely connected with it to be easily separated; for they not
only mark its sincerity, but promote its efficacy.

No man commits any act of negligence or obstinacy, by which his safety or happiness in this
world is endangered, without feeling the pungency of remorse. He who is fully convinced, that
he suffers by his own failure, can never forbear to trace back his miscarriage to its first
cause, to image to himself a contrary behaviour, and to form involuntary resolutions against
the like fault, even when he knows that he shall never again have the power of committing it.
Danger, considered as imminent, naturally produces such trepidations of impatience as leave
all human means of safety behind them; he that has once caught an alarm of terrour, is every
moment seized with useless anxieties, adding one security to another, trembling with sudden
doubts, and distracted by the perpetual occurrence of new expedients. If, therefore, he whose
crimes have deprived him of the favour of God, can reflect upon his conduct without disturbance,
or can at will banish the reflection; if he who considers himself as suspended over the abyss
of eternal perdition only by the thread of life, which must soon part by its own weakness,
and which the wing of every minute may divide, can cast his eyes round him without shuddering
with horrour, or panting with security; what can he judge of himself, but that he is not yet
awakened to sufficient conviction, since every loss is more lamented than the loss of the divine
favour, and every danger more dreadful than the danger of final condemnation?

Retirement from the cares and pleasures of the world has been often recommended as useful to
repentance. This at least is evident, that every one retires, whenever ratiocination and recollection
are required on other occasions; and surely the retrospect of life, the disentanglement of
actions complicated with innumerable circumstances, and diffused in various relations, the
discovery of the primary movements of the heart, and the extirpation of lusts and appetites
deeply rooted and widely spread, may be allowed to demand some secession from sport and noise,
business and folly. Some suspension of common affairs, some pause of temporal pain and pleasure,
is doubtless necessary to him that deliberates for eternity, who is forming the only plan in
which miscarriage cannot be repaired, and examining the only question in which mistake cannot
be rectified.

Austerities and mortifications are means by which the mind is invigorated and roused, by which
the attractions of pleasure are interrupted, and the chains of sensuality are broken. It is
observed by one of the fathers, that he who restrains himself in the use of things lawful,
will never encroach upon things forbidden. Abstinence, if nothing more, is, at least, a cautious
retreat from the utmost verge of permission, and confers that security which cannot be reasonably
hoped by him that dares always to hover over the precipice of destruction, or delights to approach
the pleasures which he knows it fatal to partake. Austerity is the proper antidote to indulgence;
the diseases of mind as well as body are cured by contraries, and to contraries we should readily
have recourse, if we dreaded guilt as we dread pain.

The completion and sum of repentance is a change of life. That sorrow which dictates no caution,
that fear which does not quicken our escape, that austerity which fails to rectify our affections,
are vain and unavailing. But sorrow and terrour must naturally precede reformation; for what
other cause can produce it? He, therefore, that feels himself alarmed by his conscience, anxious
for the attainment of a better state, and afflicted by the memory of his past faults, may justly
conclude, that the great work of repentance is begun, and hope by retirement and prayer, the
natural and religious means of strengthening his conviction, to impress upon his mind such
a sense of the divine presence, as may overpower the blandishments of secular delights, and
enable him to advance from one degree of holiness to another, till death shall set him free
from doubt and contest, misery and temptation[b].

  What better can we do than prostrate fall
  Before him reverent; and there confess
  Humbly our faults, and pardon beg; with tears
  Wat'ring the ground, and with our sighs the air
  Frequenting, sent from hearts contrite, in sign
  Of sorrow unfeign'd, and humiliation meek?     Par. Lost. B. x. 1087.

No. 111. TUESDAY, APRIL 9, 1751.

  [Greek: phronein gar hoi tacheis, ouk asphaleis.] SOPHOC.

  Disaster always waits on early wit.

It has been observed, by long experience, that late springs produce the greatest plenty. The
delay of blooms and fragrance, of verdure and breezes, is for the most part liberally recompensed
by the exuberance and fecundity of the ensuing seasons; the blossoms which lie concealed till
the year is advanced, and the sun is high, escape those chilling blasts, and nocturnal frosts,
which are often fatal to early luxuriance, prey upon the first smiles of vernal beauty, destroy
the feeble principles of vegetable life, intercept the fruit in the gem, and beat down the
flowers unopened to the ground.

I am afraid there is little hope of persuading the young and sprightly part of my readers,
upon whom the spring naturally forces my attention, to learn, from the great process of nature,
the difference between diligence and hurry, between speed and precipitation; to prosecute their
designs with calmness, to watch the concurrence of opportunity, and endeavour to find the lucky
moment which they cannot make. Youth is the time of enterprize and hope: having yet no occasion
of comparing our force with any opposing power, we naturally form presumptions in our own favour,
and imagine that obstruction and impediment will give way before us. The first repulses rather
inflame vehemence than teach prudence; a brave and generous mind is long before it suspects
its own weakness, or submits to sap the difficulties which it expected to subdue by storm.
Before disappointments have enforced the dictates of philosophy, we believe it in our power
to shorten the interval between the first cause and the last effect; we laugh at the timorous
delays of plodding industry, and fancy that, by increasing the fire, we can at pleasure accelerate
the projection.

At our entrance into the world, when health and vigour give us fair promises of time sufficient
for the regular maturation of our schemes, and a long enjoyment of our acquisitions, we are
eager to seize the present moment; we pluck every gratification within our reach, without suffering
it to ripen into perfection, and crowd all the varieties of delight into a narrow compass;
but age seldom fails to change our conduct; we grow negligent of time in proportion as we have
less remaining, and suffer the last part of life to steal from us in languid preparations for
future undertakings, or slow approaches to remote advantages, in weak hopes of some fortuitous
occurrence, or drowsy equilibrations of undetermined counsel: whether it be that the aged,
having tasted the pleasures of man's condition, and found them delusive, become less anxious
for their attainment; or that frequent miscarriages have depressed them to despair, and frozen
them to inactivity; or that death shocks them more as it advances upon them, and they are afraid
to remind themselves of their decay, or to discover to their own hearts that the time of trifling
is past. A perpetual conflict with natural desires seems to be the lot of our present state.
In youth we require something of the tardiness and frigidity of age; and in age we must labour
to recal the fire and impetuosity of youth; in youth we must learn to expect, and in age to enjoy.

The torment of expectation is, indeed, not easily to be borne at a time when every idea of
gratification fires the blood, and flashes on the fancy; when the heart is vacant to every
fresh form of delight, and has no rival engagements to withdraw it from the importunities of
a new desire. Yet, since the fear of missing what we seek must always be proportionable to
the happiness expected from possessing it, the passions, even in this tempestuous state, might
be somewhat moderated by frequent inculcation of the mischief of temerity, and the hazard of
losing that which we endeavour to seize before our time.

He that too early aspires to honours, must resolve to encounter not only the opposition of
interest, but the malignity of envy. He that is too eager to be rich, generally endangers his
fortune in wild adventures, and uncertain projects; and he that hastens too speedily to reputation,
often raises his character by artifices and fallacies, decks himself in colours which quickly
fade, or in plumes which accident may shake off, or competition pluck away.

The danger of early eminence has been extended by some, even to the gifts of nature; and an
opinion has been long conceived, that quickness of invention, accuracy of judgment, or extent
of knowledge, appearing before the usual time, presage a short life. Even those who are less
inclined to form general conclusions, from instances which by their own nature must be rare,
have yet been inclined to prognosticate no suitable progress from the first sallies of rapid
wits; but have observed, that after a short effort they either loiter or faint, and suffer
themselves to be surpassed by the even and regular perseverance of slower understandings.

It frequently happens, that applause abates diligence. Whoever finds himself to have performed
more than was demanded, will be contented to spare the labour of unnecessary performances,
and sit down to enjoy at ease his superfluities of honour. He whom success has made confident
of his abilities, quickly claims the privilege of negligence, and looks contemptuously on the
gradual advances of a rival, whom he imagines himself able to leave behind whenever he shall
again summon his force to the contest. But long intervals of pleasure dissipate attention,
and weaken constancy; nor is it easy for him that has sunk from diligence into sloth, to rouse
out of his lethargy, to recollect his notions, rekindle his curiosity, and engage with his
former ardour in the toils of study.

Even that friendship which intends the reward of genius, too often tends to obstruct it. The
pleasure of being caressed, distinguished, and admired, easily seduces the student from literary
solitude. He is ready to follow the call which summons him to hear his own praise, and which,
perhaps, at once flatters his appetite with certainty of pleasures, and his ambition with hopes
of patronage; pleasures which he conceives inexhaustible, and hopes which he has not yet learned
to distrust.

These evils, indeed, are by no means to be imputed to nature, or considered as inseparable
from an early display of uncommon abilities. They may be certainly escaped by prudence and
resolution, and must therefore be recounted rather as consolations to those who are less liberally
endowed, than as discouragements to such as are born with uncommon qualities. Beauty is well
known to draw after it the persecutions of impertinence, to incite the artifices of envy, and
to raise the flames of unlawful love; yet, among the ladies whom prudence or modesty have made
most eminent, who has ever complained of the inconveniences of an amiable form? or would have
purchased safety by the loss of charms?

Neither grace of person, nor vigour of understanding, are to be regarded otherwise than as
blessings, as means of happiness indulged by the Supreme Benefactor; but the advantages of
either may be lost by too much eagerness to obtain them. A thousand beauties in their first
blossom, by an imprudent exposure to the open world, have suddenly withered at the blast of
infamy; and men who might have subjected new regions to the empire of learning, have been lured
by the praise of their first productions from academical retirement, and wasted their days
in vice and dependance. The virgin who too soon aspires to celebrity and conquest, perishes
by childish vanity, ignorant credulity, or guiltless indiscretion. The genius who catches at
laurels and preferment before his time, mocks the hopes that he had excited, and loses those
years which might have been most usefully employed, the years of youth, of spirit, and vivacity.

It is one of the innumerable absurdities of pride, that we are never more impatient of direction,
than in that part of life when we need it most; we are in haste to meet enemies whom we have
not strength to overcome, and to undertake tasks which we cannot perform: and as he that once
miscarries does not easily persuade mankind to favour another attempt, an ineffectual struggle
for fame is often followed by perpetual obscurity.

[Footnote b: The perusal of these profound remarks on penance and repentance had so powerful
an effect on one of the English Benedictine monks (The Rev. James Compton) at Paris, as to
lead him from the errours of Popery! For an account of Dr. Johnson's true benevolence through
the whole of this interesting occasion, see Malone's note to Boswell's Life of Johnson, vol.
iv. p. 210--edit. 1822.]

No. 112. SATURDAY, APRIL 13, 1751.

  In mea vesanas habui dispendia vires,
    Et valui pænam fortis in ipse meain. OVID, Am. Lib. i. vii. 25.

  Of strength pernicious to myself I boast;
  The pow'rs I have were given me to my cost. F. LEWIS.

We are taught by Celsus, that health is best preserved by avoiding settled habits of life,
and deviating sometimes into slight aberrations from the laws of medicine; by varying the proportions
of food and exercise, interrupting the successions of rest and labour, and mingling hardships
with indulgence. The body, long accustomed to stated quantities and uniform periods, is disordered
by the smallest irregularity; and since we cannot adjust every day by the balance or barometer,
it is fit sometimes to depart from rigid accuracy, that we may be able to comply with necessary
affairs, or strong inclinations. He that too long observes nice punctualities, condemns himself
to voluntary imbecility, and will not long escape the miseries of disease.

The same laxity of regimen is equally necessary to intellectual health, and to a perpetual
susceptibility of occasional pleasure. Long confinement to the same company which perhaps similitude
of taste brought first together, quickly contracts the faculties, and makes a thousand things
offensive that are in themselves indifferent; a man accustomed to hear only the echo of his
own sentiments, soon bars all the common avenues of delight, and has no part in the general
gratifications of mankind.

In things which are not immediately subject to religious or moral consideration, it is dangerous
to be too rigidly in the right. Sensibility may, by an incessant attention to elegance and
propriety, be quickened to a tenderness inconsistent with the condition of humanity, irritable
by the smallest asperity, and vulnerable by the gentlest touch. He that pleases himself too
much with minute exactness, and submits to endure nothing in accommodations, attendance, or
address, below the point of perfection, will, whenever he enters the crowd of life, be harassed
with innumerable distresses, from which those who have not in the same manner increased their
sensations find no disturbance. His exotick softness will shrink at the coarseness of vulgar
felicity, like a plant transplanted to northern nurseries, from the dews and sunshine of the
tropical regions.

There will always be a wide interval between practical and ideal excellence; and, therefore,
if we allow not ourselves to be satisfied while we can perceive any errour or defect, we must
refer our hopes of ease to some other period of existence. It is well known, that, exposed
to a microscope, the smoothest polish of the most solid bodies discovers cavities and prominences;
and that the softest bloom of roseate virginity repels the eye with excrescences and discolorations.
The perceptions as well as the senses may be improved to our own disquiet, and we may, by diligent
cultivation of the powers of dislike, raise in time an artificial fastidiousness, which shall
fill the imagination with phantoms of turpitude, shew us the naked skeleton of every delight,
and present us only with the pains of pleasure, and the deformities of beauty.

Peevishness, indeed, would perhaps very little disturb the peace of mankind, were it always
the consequence of superfluous delicacy; for it is the privilege only of deep reflection, or
lively fancy, to destroy happiness by art and refinement. But by continual indulgence of a
particular humour, or by long enjoyment of undisputed superiority, the dull and thoughtless
may likewise acquire the power of tormenting themselves and others, and become sufficiently
ridiculous or hateful to those who are within sight of their conduct, or reach of their influence.

They that have grown old in a single state are generally found to be morose, fretful, and captious;
tenacious of their own practices and maxims; soon offended by contradiction or negligence;
and impatient of any association, but with those that will watch their nod, and submit themselves
to unlimited authority. Such is the effect of having lived without the necessity of consulting
any inclination but their own.

The irascibility of this class of tyrants is generally exerted upon petty provocations, such
as are incident to understandings not far extended beyond the instincts of animal life; but,
unhappily, he that fixes his attention on things always before him, will never have long cessations
of anger. There are many veterans of luxury upon whom every noon brings a paroxysm of violence,
fury, and execration; they never sit down to their dinner without finding the meat so injudiciously
bought, or so unskilfully dressed, such blunders in the seasoning, or such improprieties in
the sauce, as can scarcely be expiated without blood; and, in the transports of resentment,
make very little distinction between guilt and innocence, but let fly their menaces, or growl
out their discontent, upon all whom fortune exposes to the storm.

It is not easy to imagine a more unhappy condition than that of dependance on a peevish man.
In every other state of inferiority the certainty of pleasing is perpetually increased by a
fuller knowledge of our duty; and kindness and confidence are strengthened by every new act
of trust, and proof of fidelity. But peevishness sacrifices to a momentory offence the obsequiousness
or usefulness of half a life, and, as more is performed, increases her exactions.

Chrysalus gained a fortune by trade, and retired into the country; and, having a brother burthened
by the number of his children, adopted one of his sons. The boy was dismissed with many prudent
admonitions; informed of his father's inability to maintain him in his native rank; cautioned
against all opposition to the opinions or precepts of his uncle; and animated to perseverance
by the hopes of supporting the honour of the family, and overtopping his elder brother. He
had a natural ductility of mind, without much warmth of affection, or elevation of sentiment;
and therefore readily complied with every variety of caprice; patiently endured contradictory
reproofs; heard false accusations without pain, and opprobrious reproaches without reply; laughed
obstreperously at the ninetieth repetition of a joke; asked questions about the universal decay
of trade; admired the strength of those heads by which the price of stocks is changed and adjusted;
and behaved with such prudence and circumspection, that after six years the will was made,
and Juvenculus was declared heir. But unhappily, a month afterwards, retiring at night from
his uncle's chamber, he left the door open behind him: the old man tore his will, and being
then perceptibly declining, for want of time to deliberate, left his money to a trading company.

When female minds are embittered by age or solitude, their malignity is generally exerted in
a rigorous and spiteful superintendance of domestic trifles. Eriphile has employed her eloquence
for twenty years upon the degeneracy of servants, the nastiness of her house, the ruin of her
furniture, the difficulty of preserving tapestry from the moths, and the carelessness of the
sluts whom she employs in brushing it. It is her business every morning to visit all the rooms,
in hopes of finding a chair without its cover, a window shut or open contrary to her orders,
a spot on the hearth, or a feather on the floor, that the rest of the day may be justifiably
spent in taunts of contempt, and vociferations of anger. She lives for no other purpose but
to preserve the neatness of a house and gardens, and feels neither inclination to pleasure,
nor aspiration after virtue, while she is engrossed by the great employment of keeping gravel
from grass, and wainscot from dust. Of three amiable nieces she has declared herself an irreconcileable
enemy; to one, because she broke off a tulip with her hoop; to another, because she spilt her
coffee on a Turkey carpet; and to the third, because she let a wet dog run into the parlour.
She has broken off her intercourse of visits, because company makes a house dirty; and resolves
to confine herself more to her own affairs, and to live no longer in mire by foolish lenity.

Peevishness is generally the vice of narrow minds, and, except when it is the effect of anguish
and disease, by which the resolution is broken, and the mind made too feeble to bear the lightest
addition to its miseries, proceeds from an unreasonable persuasion of the importance of trifles.
The proper remedy against it is, to consider the dignity of human nature, and the folly of
suffering perturbation and uneasiness from causes unworthy of our notice.

He that resigns his peace to little casualties, and suffers the course of his life to be interrupted
by fortuitous inadvertencies, or offences, delivers up himself to the direction of the wind,
and loses all that constancy and equanimity which constitute the chief praise of a wise man.

The province of prudence lies between the greatest things and the least; some surpass our power
by their magnitude, and some escape our notice by their number and their frequency. But the
indispensable business of life will afford sufficient exercise to every understanding; and
such is the limitation of the human powers, that by attention to trifles we must let things
of importance pass unobserved: when we examine a mite with a glass, we see nothing but a mite.

That it is every man's interest to be pleased, will need little proof: that it is his interest
to please others, experience will inform him. It is therefore not less necessary to happiness
than to virtue, that he rid his mind of passions which make him uneasy to himself, and hateful
to the world, which enchain his intellects, and obstruct his improvement.

No. 113. TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 1751.

  --Uxorem, Postume, ducis?
  Die, qua Tisiphone, quibus exagitere colubris? JUV. Sat. vi. 28.

  A sober man like thee to change his life!
  What fury would possess thee with a wife? DRYDEN.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

I know not whether it is always a proof of innocence to treat censure with contempt. We owe
so much reverence to the wisdom of mankind, as justly to wish, that our own opinion of our
merit may be ratified by the concurrence of other suffrages; and since guilt and infamy must
have the same effect upon intelligences unable to pierce beyond external appearance, and influenced
often rather by example than precept, we are obliged to refute a false charge, lest we should
countenance the crime which we have never committed. To turn away from an accusation with supercilious
silence, is equally in the power of him that is hardened by villany, and inspirited by innocence.
The wall of brass which Horace erects upon a clear conscience, may be sometimes raised by impudence
or power; and we should always wish to preserve the dignity of virtue by adorning her with
graces which wickedness cannot assume.

For this reason I have determined no longer to endure, with either patient or sullen resignation,
a reproach, which is, at least in my opinion, unjust; but will lay my case honestly before
you, that you or your readers may at length decide it.

Whether you will be able to preserve your boasted impartiality, when you hear that I am considered
as an adversary by half the female world, you may surely pardon me for doubting, notwithstanding
the veneration to which you may imagine yourself entitled by your age, your learning, your
abstraction, or your virtue. Beauty, Mr. Rambler, has often overpowered the resolutions of
the firm, and the reasonings of the wise, roused the old to sensibility, and subdued the rigorous
to softness.

I am one of those unhappy beings, who have been marked out as husbands for many different women,
and deliberated a hundred times on the brink of matrimony. I have discussed all the nuptial
preliminaries so often, that I can repeat the forms in which jointures are settled, pin-money
secured, and provisions for younger children ascertained; but am at last doomed by general
consent to everlasting solitude, and excluded by an irreversible decree from all hopes of connubial
felicity. I am pointed out by every mother, as a man whose visits cannot be admitted without
reproach; who raises hopes only to embitter disappointment, and makes offers only to seduce
girls into a waste of that part of life, in which they might gain advantageous matches, and
become mistresses and mothers.

I hope you will think, that some part of this penal severity may justly be remitted, when I
inform you, that I never yet professed love to a woman without sincere intentions of marriage;
that I have never continued an appearance of intimacy from the hour that my inclination changed,
but to preserve her whom I was leaving from the shock of abruptness, or the ignominy of contempt;
that I always endeavoured to give the ladies an opportunity of seeming to discard me; and that
I never forsook a mistress for larger fortune, or brighter beauty, but because I discovered
some irregularity in her conduct, or some depravity in her mind; not because I was charmed
by another, but because I was offended by herself.

I was very early tired of that succession of amusements by which the thoughts of most young
men are dissipated, and had not long glittered in the splendour of an ample patrimomy  before
I wished for the calm of domestick happiness. Youth is naturally delighted with sprightliness
and ardour, and therefore I breathed out the sighs of my first affection at the feet of the
gay, the sparkling, the vivacious Ferocula. I fancied to myself a perpetual source of happiness
in wit never exhausted, and spirit never depressed; looked with veneration on her readiness
of expedients, contempt of difficulty, assurance of address, and promptitude of reply; considered
her as exempt by some prerogative of nature from the weakness and timidity of female minds;
and congratulated myself upon a companion superior to all common troubles and embarrassments.
I was, indeed, somewhat disturbed by the unshaken perseverance with which she enforced her
demands of an unreasonable settlement; yet I should have consented to pass my life in union
with her, had not my curiosity led me to a crowd gathered in the street, where I found Ferocula,
in the presence of hundreds, disputing for six-pence with a chairman. I saw her in so little
need of assistance, that it was no breach of the laws of chivalry to forbear interposition,
and I spared myself the shame of owning her acquaintance. I forgot some point of ceremony at
our next interview, and soon provoked her to forbid me her presence.

My next attempt was upon a lady of great eminence for learning and philosophy. I had frequently
observed the barrenness and uniformity of connubial conversation, and therefore thought highly
of my own prudence and discernment, when I selected from a multitude of wealthy beauties, the
deep-read Misothea, who declared herself the inexorable enemy of ignorant pertness, and puerile
levity; and scarcely condescended to make tea, but for the linguist, the geometrician, the
astronomer, or the poet. The queen of the Amazons was only to be gained by the hero who could
conquer her in single combat; and Misothea's heart was only to bless the scholar who could
overpower her by disputation. Amidst the fondest transports of courtship she could call for
a definition of terms, and treated every argument with contempt that could not be reduced to
regular syllogism. You may easily imagine, that I wished this courtship at an end; but when
I desired her to shorten my torments, and fix the day of my felicity, we were led into a long
conversation, in which Misothea endeavoured to demonstrate the folly of attributing choice
and self-direction to any human being. It was not difficult to discover the danger of committing
myself for ever to the arms of one who might at any time mistake the dictates of passion, or
the calls of appetite, for the decree of fate; or consider cuckoldom as necessary to the general
system, as a link in the everlasting chain of successive causes. I therefore told her, that
destiny had ordained us to part, and that nothing should have torn me from her but the talons
of necessity.

I then solicited the regard of the calm, the prudent, the economical Sophronia, a lady who
considered wit as dangerous, and learning as superfluous, and thought that the woman who kept
her house clean, and her accounts exact, took receipts for every payment, and could find them
at a sudden call, inquired nicely after the condition of the tenants, read the price of stocks
once a-week, and purchased every thing at the best market, could want no accomplishments necessary
to the happiness of a wise man. She discoursed with great solemnity on the care and vigilance
which the superintendance of a family demands; observed how many were ruined by confidence
in servants; and told me, that she never expected honesty but from a strong chest, and that
the best storekeeper was the mistress's eye. Many such oracles of generosity she uttered, and
made every day new improvements in her schemes for the regulations of her servants, and the
distribution of her time. I was convinced that, whatever I might suffer from Sophronia, I should
escape poverty; and we therefore proceeded to adjust the settlements according to her own rule,
fair and softly. But one morning her maid came to me in tears to intreat my interest for a
reconciliation with her mistress, who had turned her out at night for breaking six teeth in
a tortoise-shell comb; she had attended her lady from a distant province, and having not lived
long enough to save much money, was destitute among strangers, and, though of a good family,
in danger of perishing in the streets, or of being compelled by hunger to prostitution. I made
no scruple of promising to restore her; but upon my first application to Sophronia, was answered
with an air which called for approbation, that if she neglected her own affairs, I might suspect
her of neglecting mine; that the comb stood her in three half crowns; that no servant should
wrong her twice; and that indeed she took the first opportunity of parting with Phillida, because,
though she was honest, her constitution was bad, and she thought her very likely to fall sick.
Of our conferrence I need not tell you the effect; it surely may be forgiven me, if on this
occasion I forgot the decency of common forms.

From two more ladies I was disengaged by finding, that they entertained my rivals at the same
time, and determined their choice by the liberality of our settlements. Another, I thought
myself justified in forsaking, because she gave my attorney a bribe to favour her in the bargain;
another because I could never soften her to tenderness, till she heard that most of my family
had died young; and another, because, to increase her fortune by expectations, she represented
her sister as languishing and consumptive.

I shall in another letter give the remaining part of my history of courtship. I presume that
I should hitherto have injured the majesty of female virtue, had I not hoped to transfer my
affection to higher merit.

I am, &c.

HYMENAEUS.

No. 114. SATURDAY, APRIL 20, 1751.

  --Audi,
  Nulla umquum de morte hominis cunctatio longa est. JUV. Sat. vi. 220.

  --When man's life is in debate,
  The judge can ne'er too long deliberate. DRYDEN.

Power and superiority are so flattering and delightful, that, fraught with temptation, and
exposed to danger, as they are, scarcely any virtue is so cautious, or any prudence so timorous,
as to decline them. Even those that have most reverence for the laws of right, are pleased
with shewing that not fear, but choice, regulates their behaviour; and would be thought to
comply, rather than obey. We love to overlook the boundaries which we do not wish to pass;
and, as the Roman satirist remarks, he that has no design to take the life of another, is yet
glad to have it in his hands.

From the same principle, tending yet more to degeneracy and corruption, proceeds the desire
of investing lawful authority with terrour, and governing by force rather than persuasion.
Pride is unwilling to believe the necessity of assigning any other reason than her own will;
and would rather maintain the most equitable claims by violence and penalties, than descend
from the dignity of command to dispute and expostulation.

It may, I think, be suspected, that this political arrogance has sometimes found its way into
legislative assemblies, and mingled with deliberations upon property and life. A slight perusal
of the laws by which the measures of vindictive and coercive justice are established, will
discover so many disproportions between crimes and punishments, such capricious distinctions
of guilt, and such confusion of remissness and severity, as can scarcely be believed to have
been produced by publick wisdom, sincerely and calmly studious of publick happiness.

The learned, the judicious, the pious Boerhaave relates, that he never saw a criminal dragged
to execution without asking himself, "Who knows whether this man is not less culpable than
me?" On the days when the prisons of this city are emptied into the grave, let every spectator
of the dreadful procession put the same question to his own heart. Few among those that crowd
in thousands to the legal massacre, and look with carelessness, perhaps with triumph, on the
utmost exacerbations of human misery, would then be able to return without horrour and dejection.
For, who can congratulate himself upon a life passed without some act more mischievous to the
peace or prosperity of others, than the theft of a piece of money?

It has been always the practice, when any particular species of robbery becomes prevalent and
common, to endeavour its suppression by capital denunciations. Thus one generation of malefactors
is commonly cut off, and their successors are frighted into new expedients; the art of thievery
is augmented with greater variety of fraud, and subtilized to higher degrees of dexterity,
and more occult methods of conveyance. The law then renews the pursuit in the heat of anger,
and overtakes the offender again with death. By this practice capital inflictions are multiplied,
and crimes, very different in their degrees of enormity, are equally subjected to the severest
punishment that man has the power of exercising upon man.

The lawgiver is undoubtedly allowed to estimate the malignity of an offence, not merely by
the loss or pain which single acts may produce, but by the general alarm and anxiety arising
from the fear of mischief, and insecurity of possession: he therefore exercises the right which
societies are supposed to have over the lives of those that compose them, not simply to punish
a transgression, but to maintain order, and preserve quiet; he enforces those laws with severity,
that are most in danger of violation, as the commander of a garrison doubles the guard on that
side which is threatened by the enemy.

This method has been long tried, but tried with so little success, that rapine and violence
are hourly increasing, yet few seem willing to despair of its efficacy; and of those who employ
their speculations upon the present corruption of the people, some propose the introduction
of more horrid, lingering, and terrifick punishments; some are inclined to accelerate the executions;
some to discourage pardons; and all seem to think that lenity has given confidence to wickedness,
and that we can only be rescued from the talons of robbery by inflexible rigour, and sanguinary
justice.

Yet, since the right of setting an uncertain and arbitrary value upon life has been disputed,
and since experience of past times gives us little reason to hope that any reformation will
be effected by a periodical havock of our fellow-beings, perhaps it will not be useless to
consider what consequences might arise from relaxations of the law, and a more rational and
equitable adaptation of penalties to offences.

Death is, as one of the ancients observes, [Greek: to ton phoberon phoberotaton], of dreadful
things the most dreadful: an evil, beyond which nothing can be threatened by sublunary power,
or feared from human enmity or vengeance. This terrour should, therefore, be reserved as the
last resort of authority, as the strongest and most operative of prohibitory sanctions, and
placed before the treasure of life, to guard from invasion what cannot be restored. To equal
robbery with murder is to reduce murder to robbery; to confound in common minds the gradations
of iniquity, and incite the commission of a greater crime to prevent the detection of a less.
If only murder were punished with death, very few robbers would stain their hands in blood;
but when, by the last act of cruelty, no new danger is incurred, and greater security may be
obtained, upon what principle shall we bid them forbear?

It may be urged, that the sentence is often mitigated to simple robbery; but surely this is
to confess that our laws are unreasonable in our own opinion; and, indeed, it may be observed,
that all but murderers have, at their last hour, the common sensations of mankind pleading
in their favour.

From this conviction of the inequality of the punishment to the offence, proceeds the frequent
solicitation of pardons. They who would rejoice at the correction of a thief, are yet shocked
at the thought of destroying him. His crime shrinks to nothing, compared with his misery; and
severity defeats itself by exciting pity.

The gibbet, indeed, certainly disables those who die upon it from infesting the community;
but their death seems not to contribute more to the reformation of their associates, than any
other method of separation. A thief seldom passes much of his time in recollection or anticipation,
but from robbery hastens to riot, and from riot to robbery; nor, when the grave closes on his
companion, has any other care than to find another.

The frequency of capital punishments, therefore, rarely hinders the commission of a crime,
but naturally and commonly prevents its detection, and is, if we proceed only upon prudential
principles, chiefly for that reason to be avoided. Whatever may be urged by casuists or politicians,
the greater part of mankind, as they can never think that to pick the pocket and to pierce
the heart is equally criminal, will scarcely believe that two malefactors so different in guilt
can be justly doomed to the same punishment: nor is the necessity of submitting the conscience
to human laws so plainly evinced, so clearly stated, or so generally allowed, but that the
pious, the tender, and the just, will always scruple to concur with the community in an act
which their private judgment cannot approve.

He who knows not how often rigorous laws produce total impunity, and how many crimes are concealed
and forgotten for fear of hurrying the offender to that state in which there is no repentance,
has conversed very little with mankind. And whatever epithets of reproach or contempt this
compassion may incur from those who confound cruelty with firmness, I know not whether any
wise man would wish it less powerful, or less extensive.

If those whom the wisdom of our laws has condemned to die, had been detected in their rudiments
of robbery, they might, by proper discipline and useful labour, have been disentangled from
their habits, they might have escaped all the temptation to subsequent crimes, and passed their
days in reparation and penitence; and detected they might all have been, had the prosecutors
been certain that their lives would have been spared. I believe, every thief will confess,
that he has been more than once seized and dismissed; and that he has sometimes ventured upon
capital crimes, because he knew, that those whom he injured would rather connive at his escape,
than cloud their minds with the horrours of his death.

All laws against wickedness are ineffectual, unless some will inform, and some will prosecute;
but till we mitigate the penalties for mere violations of property, information will always
be hated, and prosecution dreaded. The heart of a good man cannot but recoil at the thought
of punishing a slight injury with death; especially when he remembers that the thief might
have procured safety by another crime, from which he was restrained only by his remaining virtue.

The obligations to assist the exercise of publick justice are indeed strong; but they will
certainly be overpowered by tenderness for life. What is punished with severity contrary to
our ideas of adequate retribution, will be seldom discovered; and multitudes will be suffered
to advance from crime to crime, till they deserve death, because, if they had been sooner prosecuted,
they would have suffered death before they deserved it.

This scheme of invigorating the laws by relaxation, and extirpating wickedness by lenity, is
so remote from common practice, that I might reasonably fear to expose it to the publick, could
it be supported only by my own observations: I shall, therefore, by ascribing it to its author,
Sir Thomas More, endeavour to procure it that attention, which I wish always paid to prudence,
to justice, and to mercy.[c]

No. 115. TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 1751.

  Quaedam parvu quidem; sed non toleranda maritis. JUV. Sat vi. 184.

  Some faults, though small, intolerable grow.    DRYDEN.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

I sit down, in pursuance of my late engagement, to recount the remaining part of the adventures
that befel me in my long quest of conjugal felicity, which, though I have not yet been so happy
as to obtain it, I have at least endeavoured to deserve by unwearied diligence, without suffering
from repeated disappointments any abatement of my hope, or repression of my activity.

You must have observed in the world a species of mortals who employ themselves in promoting
matrimony, and without any visible motive of interest or vanity, without any discoverable impulse
of malice or benevolence, without any reason, but that they want objects of attention and topicks
of conversation, are incessantly busy in procuring wives and husbands. They fill the ears of
every single man and woman with some convenient match; and when they are informed of your age
and fortune, offer a partner for life with the same readiness, and the same indifference, as
a salesman, when he has taken measure by his eye, fits his customer with a coat.

It might be expected that they should soon be discouraged from this officious interposition
by resentment or contempt; and that every man should determine the choice on which so much
of his happiness must depend, by his own judgment and observation: yet it happens, that as
these proposals are generally made with a shew of kindness, they seldom provoke anger, but
are at worst heard with patience, and forgotten. They influence weak minds to approbation;
for many are sure to find in a new acquaintance, whatever qualities report has taught them
to expect; and in more powerful and active understandings they excite curiosity, and sometimes,
by a lucky chance, bring persons of similar tempers within the attraction of each other.

I was known to possess a fortune, and to want a wife; and therefore was frequently attended
by these hymeneal solicitors, with whose importunity I was sometimes diverted, and sometimes
perplexed; for they contended for me as vultures for a carcase; each employing all his eloquence,
and all his artifices, to enforce and promote his own scheme, from the success of which he
was to receive no other advantage than the pleasure of defeating others equally eager, and
equally industrious.

An invitation to sup with one of those busy friends, made me, by a concerted chance, acquainted
with Camilla, by whom it was expected that I should be suddenly and irresistibly enslaved.
The lady, whom the same kindness had brought without her own concurrence into the lists of
love, seemed to think me at least worthy of the honour of captivity; and exerted the power,
both of her eyes and wit, with so much art and spirit, that though I had been too often deceived
by appearances to devote myself irrevocably at the first interview, yet I could not suppress
some raptures of admiration, and flutters of desire. I was easily persuaded to make nearer
approaches; but soon discovered, that an union with Camilla was not much to be wished. Camilla
professed a boundless contempt for the folly, levity, ignorance, and impertinence of her own
sex; and very frequently expressed her wonder that men of learning or experience could submit
to trifle away life with beings incapable of solid thought. In mixed companies, she always
associated with the men, and declared her satisfaction when the ladies retired. If any short
excursion into the country was proposed, she commonly insisted upon the exclusion of women
from the party; because, where they were admitted, the time was wasted in frothy compliments,
weak indulgences, and idle ceremonies. To shew the greatness of her mind, she avoided all compliance
with the fashion; and to boast the profundity of her knowledge, mistook the various textures
of silk, confounded tabbies with damasks, and sent for ribands by wrong names. She despised
the commerce of stated visits, a farce of empty form without instruction; and congratulated
herself, that she never learned to write message cards. She often applauded the noble sentiment
of Plato, who rejoiced that he was born a man rather than a woman; proclaimed her approbation
of Swift's opinion, that women are only a higher species of monkeys; and confessed, that when
she considered the behaviour, or heard the conversation, of her sex, she could not but forgive
the Turks for suspecting them to want souls.

It was the joy and pride of Camilla to have provoked, by this insolence, all the rage of hatred,
and all the persecutions of calumny; nor was she ever more elevated with her own superiority,
than when she talked of female anger, and female cunning. Well, says she, has nature provided
that such virulence should be disabled by folly, and such cruelty be restrained by impotence.

Camilla doubtless expected, that what she lost on one side, she should gain on the other; and
imagined that every male heart would be open to a lady, who made such generous advances to
the borders of virility. But man, ungrateful man, instead of springing forward to meet her,
shrunk back at her approach. She was persecuted by the ladies as a deserter, and at best received
by the men only as a fugitive. I, for my part, amused myself awhile with her fopperies, but
novelty soon gave way to detestation, for nothing out of the common order of nature can be
long borne. I had no inclination to a wife who had the ruggedness of a man without his force,
and the ignorance of a woman without her softness; nor could I think my quiet and honour to
be entrusted to such audacious virtue as was hourly courting danger, and soliciting assault.

My next mistress was Nitella, a lady of gentle mien, and soft voice, always speaking to approve,
and ready to receive direction from those with whom chance had brought her into company. In
Nitella I promised myself an easy friend, with whom I might loiter away the day without disturbance
or altercation. I therefore soon resolved to address her, but was discouraged from prosecuting
my courtship, by observing, that her apartments were superstitiously regular; and that, unless
she had notice of my visit, she was never to be seen. There is a kind of anxious cleanliness
which I have always noted as the characteristick of a slattern; it is the superfluous scrupulosity
of guilt, dreading discovery, and shunning suspicion: it is the violence of an effort against
habit, which, being impelled by external motives, cannot stop at the middle point.

Nitella was always tricked out rather with nicety than elegance; and seldom could forbear to
discover, by her uneasiness and constraint, that her attention was burdened, and her imagination
engrossed: I therefore concluded, that being only occasionally and ambitiously dressed, she
was not familiarized to her own ornaments. There are so many competitors for the fame of cleanliness,
that it is not hard to gain information of those that fail, from those that desire to excel:
I quickly found that Nitella passed her time between finery and dirt; and was always in a wrapper,
night-cap, and slippers, when she was not decorated for immediate show.

I was then led by my evil destiny to Charybdis, who never neglected an opportunity of seizing
a new prey when it came within her reach. I thought myself quickly made happy by permission
to attend her to publick places; and pleased my own vanity with imagining the envy which I
should raise in a thousand hearts, by appearing as the acknowledged favourite of Charybdis.
She soon after hinted her intention to take a ramble for a fortnight, into a part of the kingdom
which she had never seen. I solicited the happiness of accompanying her, which, after a short
reluctance, was indulged me. She had no other curiosity on her journey, than after all possible
means of expense; and was every moment taking occasion to mention some delicacy, which I knew
it my duty upon such notices to procure.

After our return, being now more familiar, she told me, whenever we met, of some new diversion;
at night she had notice of a charming company that would breakfast in the gardens; and in the
morning had been informed of some new song in the opera, some new dress at the playhouse, or
some performer at a concert whom she longed to hear. Her intelligence was such, that there
never was a show, to which she did not summon me on the second day; and as she hated a crowd,
and could not go alone, I was obliged to attend at some intermediate hour, and pay the price
of a whole company. When we passed the streets, she was often charmed with some trinket in
the toy-shops; and from moderate desires of seals and snuff-boxes, rose, by degrees, to gold
and diamonds. I now began to find the smile of Charybdis too costly for a private purse, and
added one more to six and forty lovers, whose fortune and patience her rapacity had exhausted.

Imperia then took possession of my affections; but kept them only for a short time. She had
newly inherited a large fortune, and having spent the early part of her life in the perusal
of romances, brought with her into the gay world all the pride of Cleopatra; expected nothing
less than vows, altars, and sacrifices; and thought her charms dishonoured, and her power infringed,
by the softest opposition to her sentiments, or the smallest transgression of her commands.
Time might indeed cure this species of pride in a mind not naturally undiscerning, and vitiated
only by false representations; but the operations of time are slow; and I therefore left her
to grow wise at leisure, or to continue in errour at her own expense.

Thus I have hitherto, in spite of myself, passed my life in frozen celibacy. My friends, indeed,
often tell me, that I flatter my imagination with higher hopes than human nature can gratify;
that I dress up an ideal charmer in all the radiance of perfection, and then enter the world
to look for the same excellence in corporeal beauty. But surely, Mr. Rambler, it is not madness
to hope for some terrestrial lady unstained by the spots which I have been describing; at least
I am resolved to pursue my search; for I am so far from thinking meanly of marriage, that I
believe it able to afford the highest happiness decreed to our present state; and if, after
all these miscarriages, I find a woman that fills up my expectation, you shall hear once more from,

Yours, &c.

HYMENAEUS.

[Footnote c: The arguments of the revered Sir Samuel Romilly on Criminal Law, have almost been
anticipated in this luminous paper, which would have gained praise even for a legislator. On
the correction of our English Criminal Code, see Mr. Buxton's speech in the House of Commons,
1820. It is a fund of practical information, and, apart from its own merits, will repay perusal
by the valuable collection of opinions which it contains on this momentous and interesting
subject. ED.]

No. 116. SATURDAY, APRIL 27, 1751.

  Optat ephippia bos piger: optat arare caballus.
  HOR. Lib. i. Ep. xiv. 43.

  Thus the slow ox would gaudy trappings claim;
  The sprightly horse would plough.--FRANCIS.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

I was the second son of a country gentleman by the daughter of a wealthy citizen of London.
My father having by his marriage freed the estate from a heavy mortgage, and paid his sisters
their portions, thought himself discharged from all obligation to further thought, and entitled
to spend the rest of his life in rural pleasures. He therefore spared nothing that might contribute
to the completion of his felicity; he procured the best guns and horses that the kingdom could
supply, paid large salaries to his groom and huntsman, and became the envy of the country for
the discipline of his hounds. But, above all his other attainments, he was eminent for a breed
of pointers and setting-dogs, which by long and vigilant cultivation he had so much improved,
that not a partridge or heathcock could rest in security, and game of whatever species that
dared to light upon his manor, was beaten down by his shot, or covered with his nets.

My elder brother was very early initiated in the chace, and, at an age when other boys are
creeping like snails unwillingly to school, he could wind the horn, beat the bushes, bound
over hedges, and swim rivers. When the huntsman one day broke his leg, he supplied his place
with equal abilities, and came home with the scut in his hat, amidst the acclamations of the
whole village. I being either delicate or timorous, less desirous of honour, or less capable
of sylvan heroism, was always the favourite of my mother; because I kept my coat clean, and
my complexion free from freckles, and did not come home, like my brother, mired and tanned,
nor carry corn in my hat to the horse, nor bring dirty curs into the parlour.

My mother had not been taught to amuse herself with books, and being much inclined to despise
the ignorance and barbarity of the country ladies, disdained to learn their sentiments or conversation,
and had made no addition to the notions which she had brought from the precincts of Cornhill.
She was, therefore, always recounting the glories of the city; enumerating the succession of
mayors; celebrating the magnificence of the banquets at Guildhall; and relating the civilities
paid her at the companies' feasts by men of whom some are now made aldermen, some have fined
for sheriffs, and none are worth less than forty thousand pounds. She frequently displayed
her father's greatness; told of the large bills which he had paid at sight; of the sums for
which his word would pass upon the Exchange; the heaps of gold which he used on Saturday night
to toss about with a shovel; the extent of his warehouse, and the strength of his doors; and
when she relaxed her imagination with lower subjects, described the furniture of their country-house,
or repeated the wit of the clerks and porters.

By these narratives I was fired with the splendour and dignity of London, and of trade. I therefore
devoted myself to a shop, and warmed my imagination from year to year with inquiries about
the privileges of a freeman, the power of the common council, the dignity of a wholesale dealer,
and the grandeur of mayoralty, to which my mother assured me that many had arrived who began
the world with less than myself.

I was very impatient to enter into a path, which led to such honour and felicity; but was forced
for a time to endure some repression of my eagerness, for it was my grandfather's maxim, that
a young man seldom makes much money, who is out of his time before two-and-twenty. They thought
it necessary, therefore, to keep me at home till the proper age, without any other employment
than that of learning merchants' accounts, and the art of regulating books; but at length the
tedious days elapsed, I was transplanted to town, and, with great satisfaction to myself, bound
to a haberdasher.

My master, who had no conception of any virtue, merit, or dignity, but that of being rich,
had all the good qualities which naturally arise from a close and unwearied attention to the
main chance; his desire to gain wealth was so well tempered by the vanity of shewing it, that
without any other principle of action, he lived in the esteem of the whole commercial world;
and was always treated with respect by the only men whose good opinion he valued or solicited,
those who were universally allowed to be richer than himself.

By his instructions I learned in a few weeks to handle a yard with great dexterity, to wind
tape neatly upon the ends of my fingers, and to make up parcels with exact frugality of paper
and packthread; and soon caught from my fellow-apprentices the true grace of a counter-bow,
the careless air with which a small pair of scales is to be held between the fingers, and the
vigour and sprightliness with which the box, after the riband has been cut, is returned into
its place. Having no desire of any higher employment, and therefore applying all my powers
to the knowledge of my trade, I was quickly master of all that could be known, became a critick
in small wares, contrived new variations of figures, and new mixtures of colours, and was sometimes
consulted by the weavers when they projected fashions for the ensuing spring.

With all these accomplishments, in the fourth year of my apprenticeship, I paid a visit to
my friends in the country, where I expected to be received as a new ornament of the family,
and consulted by the neighbouring gentlemen as a master of pecuniary knowledge, and by the
ladies as an oracle of the mode. But, unhappily, at the first publick table to which I was
invited, appeared a student of the Temple, and an officer of the guards, who looked upon me
with a smile of contempt, which destroyed at once all my hopes of distinction, so that I durst
hardly raise my eyes for fear of encountering their superiority of mien. Nor was my courage
revived by any opportunities of displaying my knowledge; for the templar entertained the company
for part of the day with historical narratives and political observations; and the colonel
afterwards detailed the adventures of a birth-night, told the claims and expectations of the
courtiers, and gave an account of assemblies, gardens, and diversions. I, indeed, essayed to
fill up a pause in a parliamentary debate with a faint mention of trade and Spaniards; and
once attempted, with some warmth, to correct a gross mistake about a silver breast-knot; but
neither of my antagonists seemed to think a reply necessary; they resumed their discourse without
emotion, and again engrossed the attention of the company; nor did one of the ladies appear
desirous to know my opinion of her dress, or to hear how long the carnation shot with white,
that was then new amongst them, had been antiquated in town.

As I knew that neither of these gentlemen had more money than myself, I could not discover
what had depressed me in their presence; nor why they were considered by others as more worthy
of attention and respect; and therefore resolved, when we met again, to rouse my spirit, and
force myself into notice. I went very early to the next weekly meeting, and was entertaining
a small circle very successfully with a minute representation of my lord mayor's show, when
the colonel entered careless and gay, sat down with a kind of unceremonious civility, and without
appearing to intend any interruption, drew my audience away to the other part of the room,
to which I had not the courage to follow them. Soon after came in the lawyer, not indeed with
the same attraction of mien, but with greater powers of language: and by one or other the company
was so happily amused, that I was neither heard nor seen, nor was able to give any other proof
of my existence than that I put round the glass, and was in my turn permitted to name the toast.

My mother, indeed, endeavoured to comfort me in my vexation, by telling me, that perhaps these
showy talkers were hardly able to pay every one his own; that he who has money in his pocket
need not care what any man says of him; that, if I minded my trade, the time will come when
lawyers and soldiers would be glad to borrow out of my purse; and that it is fine, when a man
can set his hands to his sides, and say he is worth forty thousand pounds every day of the
year. These and many more such consolations and encouragements, I received from my good mother,
which, however, did not much allay my uneasiness; for having by some accident heard, that the
country ladies despised her as a cit, I had therefore no longer much reverence for her opinions,
but considered her as one whose ignorance and prejudice had hurried me, though without ill
intentions, into a state of meanness and ignominy, from which I could not find any possibility
of rising to the rank which my ancestors had always held.

I returned, however, to my master, and busied myself among thread, and silks, and laces, but
without my former cheerfulness and alacrity. I had now no longer any felicity in contemplating
the exact disposition of my powdered curls, the equal plaits of my ruffles, or the glossy blackness
of my shoes; nor heard with my former elevation those compliments which ladies sometimes condescended
to pay me upon my readiness in twisting a paper, or counting out the change. The term of Young
Man, with which I was sometimes honoured, as I carried a parcel to the door of a coach, tortured
my imagination; I grew negligent of my person, and sullen in my temper; often mistook the demands
of the customers, treated their caprices and objections with contempt, and received and dismissed
them with surly silence.

My master was afraid lest the shop should suffer by this change of my behaviour; and, therefore,
after some expostulations, posted me in the warehouse, and preserved me from the danger and
reproach of desertion, to which my discontent would certainly have urged me, had I continued
any longer behind the counter.

In the sixth year of my servitude my brother died of drunken joy, for having run down a fox
that had baffled all the packs in the province. I was now heir, and with the hearty consent
of my master commenced gentleman. The adventures in which my new character engaged me shall
be communicated in another letter, by, Sir,

Yours, &c.

MISOCAPELUS.

No. 117. TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 1751.

  [Greek: Hossan ep Oulumpo memasan Themen autar ep Ossae
  Paelion einosiphullon, in ouranos ambatos eiae.] HOMER, Od.
  [Greek: L] 314.

  The gods they challenge, and affect the skies:
  Heav'd on Olympus tott'ring Ossa stood;
  On Ossa, Pelion nods with all his wood. POPE.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

Nothing has more retarded the advancement of learning than the disposition of vulgar minds
to ridicule and vilify what they cannot comprehend. All industry must be excited by hope; and
as the student often proposes no other reward to himself than praise, he is easily discouraged
by contempt and insult. He who brings with him into a clamorous multitude the timidity of recluse
speculation, and has never hardened his front in publick life, or accustomed his passions to
the vicissitudes and accidents, the triumphs and defeats of mixed conversation, will blush
at the stare of petulant incredulity, and suffer himself to be driven by a burst of laughter,
from the fortresses of demonstration. The mechanist will be afraid to assert before hardy contradiction,
the possibility of tearing down bulwarks with a silk-worm's thread; and the astronomer of relating
the rapidity of light, the distance of the fixed stars, and the height of the lunar mountains.

If I could by any efforts have shaken off this cowardice, I had not sheltered myself under
a borrowed name, nor applied to you for the means of communicating to the publick the theory
of a garret; a subject which, except some slight and transient strictures, has been hitherto
neglected by those who were best qualified to adorn it, either for want of leisure to prosecute
the various researches in which a nice discussion must engage them, or because it requires
such diversity of knowledge, and such extent of curiosity, as is scarcely to be found in any
single intellect: or perhaps others foresaw the tumults which would be raised against them,
and confined their knowledge to their own breasts, and abandoned prejudice and folly to the
direction of chance.

That the professors of literature generally reside in the highest stories, has been immemorially
observed. The wisdom of the ancients was well acquainted with the intellectual advantages of
an elevated situation: why else were the Muses stationed on Olympus or Parnassus, by those
who could with equal right have raised them bowers in the vale of Tempe, or erected their altars
among the flexures of Meander? Why was Jove himself nursed upon a mountain? or why did the
goddesses, when the prize of beauty was contested, try the cause upon the top of Ida? Such
were the fictions by which the great masters of the earlier ages endeavoured to inculcate to
posterity the importance of a garret, which, though they had been long obscured by the negligence
and ignorance of succeeding times, were well enforced by the celebrated symbol of Pythagoras,
[Greek: anemon pneonton taen aecho proskunei]; "when the wind blows, worship its echo." This
could not but be understood by his disciples as an inviolable injunction to live in a garret,
which I have found frequently visited by the echo and the wind. Nor was the tradition wholly
obliterated in the age of Augustus, for Tibullus evidently congratulates himself upon his garret,
not without some allusion to the Pythagorean precept:

  Quam juvat immites ventos audire cubantem--
  Aut, gelidas hibernus aquas quum fuderit Auster,
  Securum somnos imbre juvante sequi!    Lib. i. El. i. 45.

  How sweet in sleep to pass the careless hours,
  Lull'd by the beating winds and dashing show'rs!    Lib. ii. 7.

  --'Tis sweet thy lab'ring steps to guide
  To virtue's heights, with wisdom well supplied,
  And all the magazines of learning fortified:
  From thence to look below on human kind,
  Bewilder'd in the maze of life, and blind.    DRYDEN.

The institution has, indeed, continued to our own time; the garret is still the usual receptacle
of the philosopher and poet; but this, like many ancient customs, is perpetuated only by an
accidental imitation, without knowledge of the original reason for which it was established.

  Causa latet; res est notissima.

  The cause is secret, but th' effect is known.    ADDISON.

Conjectures have, indeed, been advanced concerning these habitations of literature, but without
much satisfaction to the judicious inquirer. Some have imagined, that the garret is generally
chosen by the wits as most easily rented; and concluded that no man rejoices in his aerial
abode, but on the days of payment. Others suspect, that a garret is chiefly convenient, as
it is remoter than any other part of the house from the outer door, which is often observed
to be infested by visitants, who talk incessantly of beer, or linen, or a coat, and repeat
the same sounds every morning, and sometimes again in the afternoon, without any variation,
except that they grow daily more importunate and clamorous, and raise their voices in time
from mournful murmurs to raging vociferations. This eternal monotony is always detestable to
a man whose chief pleasure is to enlarge his knowledge, and vary his ideas. Others talk of
freedom from noise, and abstraction from common business or amusements; and some, yet more
visionary, tell us, that the faculties are enlarged by open prospects, and that the fancy is
at more liberty, when the eye ranges without confinement.

These conveniences may perhaps all be found in a well-chosen garret; but surely they cannot
be supposed sufficiently important to have operated unvariably upon different climates, distant
ages, and separate nations. Of an universal practice, there must still be presumed an universal
cause, which, however recondite and abstruse, may be perhaps reserved to make me illustrious
by its discovery, and you by its promulgation.

It is universally known that the faculties of the mind are invigorated or weakened by the state
of the body, and that the body is in a great measure regulated by the various compressions
of the ambient element. The effects of the air in the production or cure of corporeal maladies
have been acknowledged from the time of Hippocrates; but no man has yet sufficiently considered
how far it may influence the operations of the genius, though every day affords instances of
local understanding, of wits and reasoners, whose faculties are adapted to some single spot,
and who, when they are removed to any other place, sink at once into silence and stupidity.
I have discovered, by a long series of observations, that invention and elocution suffer great
impediments from dense and impure vapours, and that the tenuity of a defecated air at a proper
distance from the surface of the earth, accelerates the fancy, and sets at liberty those intellectual
powers which were before shackled by too strong attraction, and unable to expand themselves
under the pressure of a gross atmosphere. I have found dulness to quicken into sentiment in
a thin ether, as water, though not very hot, boils in a receiver partly exhausted; and heads,
in appearance empty, have teemed with notions upon rising ground, as the flaccid sides of a
football would have swelled out into stiffness and extension.

For this reason I never think myself qualified to judge decisively of any man's faculties,
whom I have only known in one degree of elevation; but take some opportunity of attending him
from the cellar to the garret, and try upon him all the various degrees of rarefaction and
condensation, tension and laxity. If he is neither vivacious aloft, nor serious below, I then
consider him as hopeless; but as it seldom happens, that I do not find the temper to which
the texture of his brain is fitted, I accommodate him in time with a tube of mercury, first
marking the points most favourable to his intellects, according to rules which I have long
studied, and which I may, perhaps, reveal to mankind in a complete treatise of barometrical
pneumatology.

Another cause of the gaiety and sprightliness of the dwellers in garrets is probably the increase
of that vertiginous motion, with which we are carried round by the diurnal revolution of the
earth. The power of agitation upon the spirits is well known; every man has felt his heart
lightened in a rapid vehicle, or on a galloping horse; and nothing is plainer, than that he
who towers to the fifth story, is whirled through more space by every circumrotation, than
another that grovels upon the ground-floor. The nations between the topicks are known to be
fiery, inconstant, inventive, and fanciful; because, living at the utmost length of the earth's
diameter, they are carried about with more swiftness than those whom nature has placed nearer
to the poles; and therefore, as it becomes a wise man to struggle with the inconveniencies
of his country, whenever celerity and acuteness are requisite, we must actuate our languor
by taking a few turns round the centre in a garret.

If you imagine that I ascribe to air and motion effects which they cannot produce, I desire
you to consult your own memory, and consider whether you have never known a man acquire reputation
in his garret, which, when fortune or a patron had placed him upon the first floor, he was
unable to maintain; and who never recovered his former vigour of understanding, till he was
restored to his original situation. That a garret will make every man a wit, I am very far
from supposing; I know there are some who would continue blockheads even on the summit of the
Andes, or on the peak of Teneriffe. But let not any man be considered as unimprovable till
this potent remedy has been tried; for perhaps he was formed to be great only in a garret,
as the joiner of Aretaeus was rational in no other place but his own shop.

I think a frequent removal to various distances from the centre, so necessary to a just estimate
of intellectual abilities, and consequently of so great use in education, that if I hoped that
the publick could be persuaded to so expensive an experiment, I would propose, that there should
be a cavern dug, and a tower erected, like those which Bacon describes in Solomon's house,
for the expansion and concentration of understanding, according to the exigence of different
employments, or constitutions. Perhaps some that fume away in meditations upon time and space
in the tower, might compose tables of interest at a certain depth; and he that upon level ground
stagnates in silence, or creeps in narrative, might at the height of half a mile, ferment into
merriment, sparkle with repartee, and froth with declamation.

Addison observes, that we may find the heat of Virgil's climate, in some lines of his Georgick:
so, when I read a composition, I immediately determine the height of the author's habitation.
As an elaborate performance is commonly said to smell of the lamp, my commendation of a noble
thought, a sprightly sally, or a bold figure, is to pronounce it fresh from the garret; an
expression which would break from me upon the perusal of most of your papers, did I not believe,
that you sometimes quit the garret, and ascend into the cock-loft.

HYPERTATUS.

No. 118. SATURDAY, MAY 4, 1751.

  --Omnes illacrymabiles
  Urgentur, ignotique longâ
    Nocte. Hon. Lib. iv. Ode ix. 26.

  In endless night they sleep, unwept, unknown. FRANCIS.

Cicero has, with his usual elegance and magnificence of language, attempted, in his relation
of the dream of Scipio, to depreciate those honours for which he himself appears to have panted
with restless solicitude, by shewing within what narrow limits all that fame and celebrity
which man can hope for from men is circumscribed.

"You see," says Africanus, pointing at the earth, from the celestial regions, "that the globe
assigned to the residence and habitation of human beings is of small dimensions: how then can
you obtain from the praise of men, any glory worthy of a wish? Of this little world the inhabited
parts are neither numerous nor wide; even the spots where men are to be found are broken by
intervening deserts, and the nations are so separated as that nothing can be transmitted from
one to another. With the people of the south, by whom the opposite part of the earth is possessed,
you have no intercourse; and by how small a tract do you communicate with the countries of
the north? The territory which you inhabit is no more than a scanty island, inclosed by a small
body of water, to which you give the name of the great sea and the Atlantick ocean. And even
in this known and frequented continent, what hope can you entertain, that your renown will
pass the stream of Ganges, or the cliffs of Caucasus? or by whom will your name be uttered
in the extremities of the north or south, towards the rising or the setting sun? So narrow
is the space to which your fame can be propagated; and even there how long will it remain?"

He then proceeds to assign natural causes why fame is not only narrow in its extent, but short
in its duration; he observes the difference between the computation of time in earth and heaven,
and declares, that according to the celestial chronology, no human honours can last a single year.

Such are the objections by which Tully has made a shew of discouraging the pursuit of fame;
objections which sufficiently discover his tenderness and regard for his darling phantom. Homer,
when the plan of his poem made the death of Patroclus necessary, resolved, at least, that he
should die with honour; and therefore brought down against him the patron god of Troy, and
left to Hector only the mean task of giving the last blow to an enemy whom a divine hand had
disabled from resistance. Thus Tully ennobles fame, which he professes to degrade, by opposing
it to celestial happiness; he confines not its extent but by the boundaries of nature, nor
contracts its duration but by representing it small in the estimation of superior beings. He
still admits it the highest and noblest of terrestrial objects, and alleges little more against
it, than that it is neither without end, nor without limits.

What might be the effect of these observations conveyed in Ciceronian eloquence to Roman understandings,
cannot be determined; but few of those who shall in the present age read my humble version
will find themselves much depressed in their hopes, or retarded in their designs; for I am
not inclined to believe, that they who among us pass their lives in the cultivation of knowledge,
or acquisition of power, have very anxiously inquired what opinions prevail on the further
banks of the Ganges, or invigorated any effort by the desire of spreading their renown among
the clans of Caucasus. The hopes and fears of modern minds are content to range in a narrower
compass; a single nation, and a few years, have generally sufficient amplitude to fill our
imaginations.

A little consideration will indeed teach us, that fame has other limits than mountains and
oceans; and that he who places happiness in the frequent repetition of his name, may spend
his life in propagating it, without any danger of weeping for new worlds, or necessity of passing
the Atlantick sea.

The numbers to whom any real and perceptible good or evil can be derived by the greatest power,
or most active diligence, are inconsiderable; and where neither benefit nor mischief operate,
the only motive to the mention or remembrance of others is curiosity; a passion, which, though
in some degree universally associated to reason, is easily confined, overborne, or diverted
from any particular object.

Among the lower classes of mankind, there will be found very little desire of any other knowledge,
than what may contribute immediately to the relief of some pressing uneasiness, or the attainment
of some near advantage. The Turks are said to hear with wonder a proposal to walk out, only
that they may walk back; and inquire why any man should labour for nothing: so those whose
condition has always restrained them to the contemplation of their own necessities, and who
have been accustomed to look forward only to a small distance, will scarcely understand, why
nights and days should be spent in studies, which end in new studies, and which, according
to Malherbe's observation, do not tend to lessen the price of bread; nor will the trader or
manufacturer easily be persuaded, that much pleasure can arise from the mere knowledge of actions,
performed in remote regions, or in distant times; or that any thing can deserve their inquiry,
of which, [Greek: kleos oion akouomen, oide ti idmen], we can only hear the report, but which
cannot influence our lives by any consequences.

The truth is, that very few have leisure from indispensable business, to employ their thoughts
upon narrative or characters; and among those to whom fortune has given the liberty of living
more by their own choice, many create to themselves engagements, by the indulgence of some
petty ambition, the admission of some insatiable desire, or the toleration of some predominant
passion. The man whose whole wish is to accumulate money, has no other care than to collect
interest, to estimate securities, and to engage for mortgages: the lover disdains to turn his
ear to any other name than that of Corinna; and the courtier thinks the hour lost which is
not spent in promoting his interest, and facilitating his advancement. The adventures of valour,
and the discoveries of science, will find a cold reception, when they are obtruded upon an
attention thus busy with its favourite amusement, and impatient of interruption or disturbance.

But not only such employments as seduce attention by appearances of dignity, or promises of
happiness, may restrain the mind from excursion and inquiry; curiosity may be equally destroyed
by less formidable enemies; it may be dissipated in trifles, or congealed by indolence. The
sportsman and the man of dress have their heads filled with a fox or a horse-race, a feather
or a ball; and live in ignorance of every thing beside, with as much content as he that heaps
up gold, or solicits preferment, digs the field, or beats the anvil; and some yet lower in
the ranks of intellect, dream out their days without pleasure or business, without joy or sorrow,
nor ever rouse from their lethargy to hear or think.

Even of those who have dedicated themselves to knowledge, the far greater part have confined
their curiosity to a few objects, and have very little inclination to promote any fame, but
that which their own studies entitle them to partake. The naturalist has no desire to know
the opinions or conjectures of the philologer: the botanist looks upon the astronomer as a
being unworthy of his regard: the lawyer scarcely hears the name of a physician without contempt;
and he that is growing great and happy by electrifying a bottle, wonders how the world can
be engaged by trifling prattle about war or peace.

If, therefore, he that imagines the world filled with his actions and praises, shall subduct
from the number of his encomiasts, all those who are placed below the flight of fame, and who
hear in the valleys of life no voice but that of necessity; all those who imagine themselves
too important to regard him, and consider the mention of his name as an usurpation of their
time; all who are too much or too little pleased with themselves, to attend to any thing external;
all who are attracted by pleasure, or chained down by pain, to unvaried ideas; all who are
withheld from attending his triumph by different pursuits; and all who slumber in universal
negligence; he will find his renown straitened by nearer bounds than the rocks of Caucasus,
and perceive that no man can be venerable or formidable, but to a small part of his fellow-creatures.

That we may not languish in our endeavours after excellence, it is necessary, that, as Africanus
counsels his descendant, "we raise our eyes to higher prospects, and contemplate our future
and eternal state, without giving up our hearts to the praise of crowds, or fixing our hopes
on such rewards as human power can bestow."

No. 119. TUESDAY, MAY 7, 1751.

  Iliacos intra muros peccatur, et extra. HOR. Lib. i. Ep. ii, 16.

  Faults lay on either side the Trojan tow'rs. ELPHINSTON.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

As, notwithstanding all that wit, or malice, or pride, or prudence will be able to suggest,
men and women must at last pass their lives together, I have never therefore thought those
writers friends to human happiness, who endeavour to excite in either sex a general contempt
or suspicion of the other. To persuade them who are entering the world, and looking abroad
for a suitable associate, that all are equally vicious, or equally ridiculous; that they who
trust are certainly betrayed, and they who esteem are always disappointed; is not to awaken
judgment, but to inflame temerity. Without hope there can be no caution. Those who are convinced,
that no reason for preference can be found, will never harass their thoughts with doubt and
deliberation; they will resolve, since they are doomed to misery, that no needless anxiety
shall disturb their quiet; they will plunge at hazard into the crowd, and snatch the first
hand that shall be held toward them.

That the world is over-run with vice, cannot be denied; but vice, however predominant, has
not yet gained an unlimited dominion. Simple and unmingled good is not in our power, but we
may generally escape a greater evil by suffering a less; and therefore, those who undertake
to initiate the young and ignorant in the knowledge of life, should be careful to inculcate
the possibility of virtue and happiness, and to encourage endeavours by prospects of success.

You, perhaps, do not suspect, that these are the sentiments of one who has been subject for
many years to all the hardships of antiquated virginity; has been long accustomed to the coldness
of neglect, and the petulance of insult; has been mortified in full assemblies by inquiries
after forgotten fashions, games long disused, and wits and beauties of ancient renown; has
been invited, with malicious importunity, to the second wedding of many acquaintances; has
been ridiculed by two generations of coquets in whispers intended to be heard; and been long
considered by the airy and gay, as too venerable for familiarity, and too wise for pleasure.
It is indeed natural for injury to provoke anger, and by continual repetition to produce an
habitual asperity; yet I have hitherto struggled with so much vigilance against my pride and
my resentment, that I have preserved my temper uncorrupted. I have not yet made it any part
of my employment to collect sentences against marriage; nor am inclined to lessen the number
of the few friends whom time has left me, by obstructing that happiness which I cannot partake,
and venting my vexation in censures of the forwardness and indiscretion of girls, or the inconstancy,
tastelessness, and perfidy of men.

It is, indeed, not very difficult to bear that condition to which we are not condemned by necessity,
but induced by observation and choice; and therefore I, perhaps, have never yet felt all the
malignity with which a reproach, edged with the appellation of old maid, swells some of those
hearts in which it is infixed. If, therefore, I am yet a stranger to nuptial happiness, I suffer
only the consequences of my own resolves, and can look back upon the succession of lovers,
whose addresses I have rejected, without grief, and without malice.

When my name first began to be inscribed upon glasses, I was honoured with the amorous professions
of the gay Venustulus, a gentleman, who, being the only son of a wealthy family, had been educated
in all the wantonness of expense, and softness of effeminacy. He was beautiful in his person,
and easy in his address, and, therefore, soon gained upon my eye at an age when the sight is
very little over-ruled by the understanding. He had not any power in himself of gladdening
or amusing; but supplied his want of conversation by treats and diversions; and his chief art
of courtship was to fill the mind of his mistress with parties, rambles, musick, and shows.
We were often engaged in short excursions to gardens and seats, and I was for a while pleased
with the care which Venustulus discovered in securing me from any appearance of danger, or
possibility of mischance. He never failed to recommend caution to his coachman, or to promise
the waterman a reward if he landed us safe; and always contrived to return by daylight, for
fear of robbers. This extraordinary solicitude was represented for a time as the effect of
his tenderness for me; but fear is too strong for continued hypocrisy. I soon discovered that
Venustulus had the cowardice as well as elegance of a female. His imagination was perpetually
clouded with terrours, and he could scarcely refrain from screams and outcries at any accidental
surprise. He durst not enter a room if a rat was heard behind the wainscot, nor cross a field
where the cattle were frisking in the sunshine; the least breeze that waved upon the river
was a storm, and every clamour in the street was a cry of fire. I have seen him lose his colour
when my squirrel had broke his chain; and was forced to throw water in his face on the sudden
entrance of a black cat. Compassion once obliged me to drive away with my fan, a beetle that
kept him in distress, and chide off a dog that yelped at his heels, to which he would gladly
have given up me to facilitate his own escape. Women naturally expect defence and protection
from a lover or a husband, and, therefore, you will not think me culpable in refusing a wretch,
who would have burdened life with unnecessary fears, and flown to me for that succour which
it was his duty to have given.

My next lover was Fungoso, the son of a stockjobber, whose visits my friends, by the importunity
of persuasion, prevailed upon me to allow. Fungoso was no very suitable companion; for having
been bred in a counting-house, he spoke a language unintelligible in any other place. He had
no desire of any reputation but that of an acute prognosticator of the changes in the funds;
nor had any means of raising merriment, but by telling how somebody was overreached in a bargain
by his father. He was, however, a youth of great sobriety and prudence, and frequently informed
us how carefully he would improve my fortune. I was not in haste to conclude the match, but
was so much awed by my parents, that I durst not dismiss him, and might, perhaps, have been
doomed for ever to the grossness of pedlary, and the jargon of usury, had not a fraud been
discovered in the settlement, which set me free from the persecution of grovelling pride, and
pecuniary impudence. I was afterwards six months without any particular notice but at last
became the idol of the glittering Flosculus, who prescribed the mode of embroidery to all the
fops of his time, and varied at pleasure the cock of every hat, and the sleeve of every coat
that appeared in fashionable assemblies. Flosculus made some impression upon my heart by a
compliment which few ladies can hear without emotion; he commended my skill in dress, my judgment
in suiting colours, and my art in disposing ornaments. But Flosculus was too much engaged by
his own elegance, to be sufficiently attentive to the duties of a lover, or to please with
varied praise an ear made delicate by riot of adulation. He expected to be repaid part of his
tribute, and staid away three days, because I neglected to take notice of a new coat. I quickly
found, that Flosculus was rather a rival than an admirer; and that we should probably live
in a perpetual struggle of emulous finery, and spend our lives in stratagems to be first in
the fashion.

I had soon after the honour at a feast of attracting the eyes of Dentatus, one of those human
beings whose only happiness is to dine. Dentatus regaled me with foreign varieties, told me
of measures that he had laid for procuring the best cook in France, and entertained me with
bills of fare, prescribed the arrangement of dishes, and taught me two sauces invented by himself.
At length, such is the uncertainty of human happiness, I declared my opinion too hastily upon
a pie made under his own direction; after which he grew so cold and negligent, that he was
easily dismissed.

Many other lovers, or pretended lovers, I have had the honour to lead awhile in triumph. But
two of them I drove from me, by discovering that they had no taste or knowledge in musick;
three I dismissed, because they were drunkards; two, because they paid their addresses at the
same time to other ladies; and six, because they attempted to influence my choice by bribing
my maid. Two more I discarded at the second visit for obscene allusions; and five for drollery
on religion. In the latter part of my reign, I sentenced two to perpetual exile, for offering
me settlements, by which the children of a former marriage would have been injured; four, for
representing falsely the value of their estates; three for concealing their debts; and one,
for raising the rent of a decrepit tenant.

I have now sent you a narrative, which the ladies may oppose, to the tale of Hymenaeus. I mean
not to depreciate the sex which has produced poets and philosophers, heroes and martyrs; but
will not suffer the rising generation of beauties to be dejected by partial satire; or to imagine
that those who censured them have not likewise their follies, and their vices. I do not yet
believe happiness unattainable in marriage, though I have never yet been able to find a man,
with whom I could prudently venture an inseparable union. It is necessary to expose faults,
that their deformity may be seen; but the reproach ought not to be extended beyond the crime,
nor either sex to be contemned, because some women, or men, are indelicate or dishonest.

I am, &c.

TRANQUILLA.

No. 120. SATURDAY, MAY 11, 1751.

  Redditum Cyri solio Phraaten.
  Dissidens plebi, numero beatorum
  Eiimit virtus, populumque falsis
          Dedocet uti
  Vocibus.--HOR. Lib. ii. Od. ii. 17.

  True virtue can the crowd unteach
  Their false mistaken forms of speech;
  Virtue, to crowds a foe profest,
  Disdains to number with the blest
  Phraates, by his slaves ador'd,
  And to the Parthian crown restor'd. FRANCIS.

In the reign of Jenghiz Can, conqueror of the east, in the city of Samarcand, lived Nouradin
the merchant, renowned throughout all the regions of India, for the extent of his commerce,
and the integrity of his dealings. His warehouses were filled with all the commodities of the
remotest nations; every rarity of nature, every curiosity of art, whatever was valuable, whatever
was useful, hasted to his hand. The streets were crowded with his carriages; the sea was covered
with his ships; the streams of Oxus were wearied with conveyance, and every breeze of the sky
wafted wealth to Nouradin.

At length Nouradin felt himself seized with a slow malady, which he first endeavoured to divert
by application, and afterwards to relieve by luxury and indulgence; but finding his strength
every day less, he was at last terrified, and called for help upon the sages of physick; they
filled his apartments with alexipharmicks, restoratives, and essential virtues; the pearls
of the ocean were dissolved, the spices of Arabia were distilled, and all the powers of nature
were employed to give new spirits to his nerves, and new balsam to his blood. Nouradin was
for some time amused with promises, invigorated with cordials, or soothed with anodynes; but
the disease preyed upon his vitals, and he soon discovered with indignation, that health was
not to be bought. He was confined to his chamber, deserted by his physicians, and rarely visited
by his friends; but his unwillingness to die flattered him long with hopes of life.

At length, having passed the night in tedious languor, he called to him Almamoulin, his only
son, and dismissing his attendants, "My son," says he, "behold here the weakness and fragility
of man; look backward a few days, thy father was great and happy, fresh as the vernal rose,
and strong as the cedar of the mountain; the nations of Asia drank his dews, and art and commerce
delighted in his shade. Malevolence beheld me, and sighed: 'His root,' she cried, 'is fixed
in the depths; it is watered by the fountains of Oxus; it sends out branches afar, and bids
defiance to the blast; prudence reclines against his trunk, and prosperity dances on his top.'
Now, Almamoulin, look upon me withering and prostrate; look upon me, and attend. I have trafficked,
I have prospered, I have rioted in gain; my house is splendid, my servants are numerous; yet
I displayed only a small part of my riches; the rest, which I was hindered from enjoying by
the fear of raising envy, or tempting rapacity, I have piled in towers, I have buried in caverns,
I have hidden in secret repositories, which this scroll will discover. My purpose was, after
ten months more spent in commerce, to have withdrawn my wealth to a safer country; to have
given seven years to delight and festivity, and the remaining part of my days to solitude and
repentance; but the hand of death is upon me; a frigorifick torpor encroaches upon my veins;
I am now leaving the produce of my toil, which it must be thy business to enjoy with wisdom."
The thought of leaving his wealth filled Nouradin with such grief, that he fell into convulsions,
became delirious, and expired.

Almamoulin, who loved his father, was touched a while with honest sorrow, and sat two hours
in profound meditation, without perusing the paper which he held in his hand. He then retired
to his own chamber, as overborne with affliction, and there read the inventory of his new possessions,
which swelled his heart with such transports, that he no longer lamented his father's death.
He was now sufficiently composed to order a funeral of modest magnificence, suitable at once
to the rank of Nouradin's profession, and the reputation of his wealth. The two next nights
he spent in visiting the tower and the caverns, and found the treasures greater to his eye
than to his imagination.

Almamoulin had been bred to the practice of exact frugality, and had often looked with envy
on the finery and expenses of other young men: he therefore believed, that happiness was now
in his power, since he could obtain all of which he had hitherto been accustomed to regret
the want. He resolved to give a loose to his desires, to revel in enjoyment, and feel pain
or uneasiness no more.

He immediately procured a splendid equipage, dressed his servants in rich embroidery, and covered
his horses with golden caparisons. He showered down silver on the populace, and suffered their
acclamations to swell him with insolence. The nobles saw him with anger, the wise men of the
state combined against him, the leaders of armies threatened his destruction. Almamoulin was
informed of his danger: he put on the robe of mourning in the presence of his enemies, and
appeased them with gold, and gems, and supplication.

He then sought to strengthen himself by an alliance with the princes of Tartary, and offered
the price of kingdoms for a wife of noble birth. His suit was generally rejected, and his presents
refused; but the princess of Astracan once condescended to admit him to her presence. She received
him, sitting on a throne, attired in the robe of royalty, and shining with the jewels of Golconda;
command sparkled in her eyes, and dignity towered on her forehead. Almamoulin approached and
trembled. She saw his confusion and disdained him: "How," says she, "dares the wretch hope
my obedience, who thus shrinks at my glance? Retire, and enjoy thy riches in sordid ostentation;
thou wast born to be wealthy, but never canst be great."

He then contracted his desires to more private and domestick pleasures. He built palaces, he
laid out gardens[d], he changed the face of the land, he transplanted forests, he levelled
mountains, opened prospects into distant regions, poured fountains from the tops of turrets,
and rolled rivers through new channels.

These amusements pleased him for a time; but languor and weariness soon invaded him. His bowers
lost their fragrance, and the waters murmured without notice. He purchased large tracts of
land in distant provinces, adorned them with houses of pleasure, and diversified them with
accommodations for different seasons. Change of place at first relieved his satiety, but all
the novelties of situation were soon exhausted; he found his heart vacant, and his desires,
for want of external objects, ravaging himself.

He therefore returned to Samarcand, and set open his doors to those whom idleness sends out
in search of pleasure. His tables were always covered with delicacies; wines of every vintage
sparkled in his bowls, and his lamps scattered perfumes. The sound of the lute, and the voice
of the singer, chased away sadness; every hour was crowded with pleasure; and the day ended
and began with feasts and dances, and revelry and merriment. Almamoulin cried out, "I have
at last found the use of riches; I am surrounded by companions, who view my greatness without
envy; and I enjoy at once the raptures of popularity, and the safety of an obscure station.
What trouble can he feel, whom all are studious to please, that they may be repaid with pleasure?
What danger can he dread, to whom every man is a friend?"

Such were the thoughts of Almamoulin, as he looked down from a gallery upon the gay assembly
regaling at his expense; but, in the midst of this soliloquy, an officer of justice entered
the house, and in the form of legal citation, summoned Almamoulin to appear before the emperor.
The guests stood awhile aghast, then stole imperceptibly away, and he was led off without a
single voice to witness his integrity. He now found one of his most frequent visitants accusing
him of treason, in hopes of sharing his confiscation; yet, unpatronized and unsupported, he
cleared himself by the openness of innocence, and the consistence of truth; he was dismissed
with honour, and his accuser perished in prison.

Almamoulin now perceived with how little reason he had hoped for justice or fidelity from those
who live only to gratify their senses; and, being now weary with vain experiments upon life
and fruitless researches after felicity, he had recourse to a sage, who, after spending his
youth in travel and observation, had retired from all human cares, to a small habitation on
the banks of Oxus, where he conversed only with such as solicited his counsel. "Brother," said
the philosopher, "thou hast suffered thy reason to be deluded by idle hopes, and fallacious
appearances. Having long looked with desire upon riches, thou hadst taught thyself to think
them more valuable than nature designed them, and to expect from them, what experience has
now taught thee, that they cannot give. That they do not confer wisdom, thou mayest be convinced,
by considering at how dear a price they tempted thee, upon thy first entrance into the world,
to purchase the empty sound of vulgar acclamation. That they cannot bestow fortitude or magnanimity,
that man may be certain, who stood trembling at Astracan, before a being not naturally superior
to himself. That they will not supply unexhausted pleasure, the recollection of forsaken palaces,
and neglected gardens, will easily inform thee. That they rarely purchase friends, thou didst
soon discover, when thou wert left to stand thy trial uncountenanced and alone. Yet think not
riches useless; there are purposes to which a wise man may be delighted to apply them; they
may, by a rational distribution to those who want them, ease the pains of helpless disease,
still the throbs of restless anxiety, relieve innocence from oppression, and raise imbecility
to cheerfulness and vigour. This they will enable thee to perform, and this will afford the
only happiness ordained for our present state, the confidence of Divine favour, and the hope
of future rewards."

[Footnote d: See Vathek.]

No. 121. TUESDAY, MAY 14, 1751.

  O imitatores, servum pecus! Hor. Lib. i. Ep. xix. 19.

  Away, ye imitators, servile herd! ELPHINSTON.

I have been informed by a letter from one of the universities, that among the youth from whom
the next swarm of reasoners is to learn philosophy, and the next flight of beauties to hear
elegies and sonnets, there are many, who, instead of endeavouring by books and meditation to
form their own opinions, content themselves with the secondary knowledge, which a convenient
bench in a coffee-house can supply; and without any examination or distinction, adopt the criticisms
and remarks, which happen to drop from those who have risen, by merit or fortune, to reputation
and authority.

These humble retailers of knowledge my correspondent stigmatises with the name of Echoes; and
seems desirous that they should be made ashamed of lazy submission, and animated to attempts
after new discoveries and original sentiments.

It is very natural for young men to be vehement, acrimonious, and severe. For, as they seldom
comprehend at once all the consequences of a position, or perceive the difficulties by which
cooler and more experienced reasoners are restrained from confidence, they form their conclusions
with great precipitance. Seeing nothing that can darken or embarrass the question, they expect
to find their own opinion universally prevalent, and are inclined to impute uncertainty and
hesitation to want of honesty, rather than of knowledge. I may, perhaps, therefore, be reproached
by my lively correspondent, when it shall be found, that I have no inclination to persecute
these collectors of fortuitous knowledge with the severity required; yet, as I am now too old
to be much pained by hasty censure, I shall not be afraid of taking into protection those whom
I think condemned without a sufficient knowledge of their cause.

He that adopts the sentiments of another, whom he has reason to believe wiser than himself,
is only to be blamed when he claims the honours which are not due but to the author, and endeavours
to deceive the world into praise and veneration; for, to learn, is the proper business of youth;
and whether we increase our knowledge by books or by conversation, we are equally indebted
to foreign assistance.

The greater part of students are not born with abilities to construct systems, or advance knowledge;
nor can have any hope beyond that of becoming intelligent hearers in the schools of art, of
being able to comprehend what others discover, and to remember what others teach. Even those
to whom Providence hath allotted greater strength of understanding, can expect only to improve
a single science. In every other part of learning, they must be content to follow opinions,
which they are not able to examine; and, even in that which they claim as peculiarly their
own, can seldom add more than some small particle of knowledge, to the hereditary stock devolved
to them from ancient times, the collective labour of a thousand intellects.

In science, which, being fixed and limited, admits of no other variety than such as arises
from new methods of distribution, or new arts of illustration, the necessity of following the
traces of our predecessors is indisputably evident; but there appears no reason, why imagination
should be subject to the same restraint. It might be conceived, that of those who profess to
forsake the narrow paths of truth, every one may deviate towards a different point, since,
though rectitude is uniform and fixed, obliquity may be infinitely diversified. The roads of
science are narrow, so that they who travel them, must either follow or meet one another; but
in the boundless regions of possibility, which fiction claims for her dominion, there are surely
a thousand recesses unexplored, a thousand flowers unplucked, a thousand fountains unexhausted,
combinations of imagery yet unobserved, and races of ideal inhabitants not hitherto described.

Yet, whatever hope may persuade, or reason evince, experience can boast of very few additions
to ancient fable. The wars of Troy, and the travels of Ulysses, have furnished almost all succeeding
poets with incidents, characters, and sentiments. The Romans are confessed to have attempted
little more than to display in their own tongue the inventions of the Greeks. There is, in
all their writings, such a perpetual recurrence of allusions to the tales of the fabulous age,
that they must be confessed often to want that power of giving pleasure which novelty supplies;
nor can we wonder that they excelled so much in the graces of diction, when we consider how
rarely they were employed in search of new thoughts.

The warmest admirers of the great Mantuan poet can extol him for little more than the skill
with which he has, by making his hero both a traveller and a warrior, united the beauties of
the Iliad and the Odyssey in one composition: yet his judgment was perhaps sometimes overborne
by his avarice of the Homeric treasures; and, for fear of suffering a sparkling ornament to
be lost, he has inserted it where it cannot shine with its original splendour.

When Ulysses visited the infernal regions, he found among the heroes that perished at Troy,
his competitor, Ajax, who, when the arms of Achilles were adjudged to Ulysses, died by his
own hand in the madness of disappointment. He still appeared to resent, as on earth, his loss
and disgrace, Ulysses endeavoured to pacify him with praises and submission; but Ajax walked
away without reply. This passage has always been considered as eminently beautiful; because
Ajax, the haughty chief, the unlettered soldier, of unshaken courage, of immovable constancy,
but without the power of recommending his own virtues by eloquence, or enforcing his assertions
by any other argument than the sword, had no way of making his anger known, but by gloomy sullenness
and dumb ferocity. His hatred of a man whom he conceived to have defeated him only by volubility
of tongue, was therefore naturally shewn by silence more contemptuous and piercing than any
words that so rude an orator could have found, and by which he gave his enemy no opportunity
of exerting the only power in which he was superior.

When Æneas is sent by Virgil to the shades, he meets Dido the queen of Carthage, whom his perfidy
had hurried to the grave; he accosts her with tenderness and excuses; but the lady turns away
like Ajax in mute disdain. She turns away like Ajax; but she resembles him in none of those
qualities which give either dignity or propriety to silence. She might, without any departure
from the tenour of her conduct, have burst out like other injured women into clamour, reproach,
and denunciation; but Virgil had his imagination full of Ajax, and therefore could not prevail
on himself to teach Dido any other mode of resentment.

If Virgil could be thus seduced by imitation, there will be little hope, that common wits should
escape; and accordingly we find, that besides the universal and acknowledged practice of copying
the ancients, there has prevailed in every age a particular species of fiction. At one time
all truth was conveyed in allegory; at another, nothing was seen but in a vision; at one period
all the poets followed sheep, and every event produced a pastoral; at another they busied themselves
wholly in giving directions to a painter.

It is indeed easy to conceive why any fashion should become popular, by which idleness is favoured,
and imbecility assisted; but surely no man of genius can much applaud himself for repeating
a tale with which the audience is already tired, and which could bring no honour to any but
its inventor.

There are, I think, two schemes of writing, on which the laborious wits of the present time
employ their faculties. One is the adaptation of sense to all the rhymes which our language
can supply to some word, that makes the burden of the stanza; but this, as it has been only
used in a kind of amorous burlesque, can scarcely be censured with much acrimony. The other
is the imitation of Spenser, which, by the influence of some men of learning and genius, seems
likely to gain upon the age, and therefore deserves to be more attentively considered.

To imitate the fictions and sentiments of Spenser can incur no reproach, for allegory is perhaps
one of the most pleasing vehicles of instruction. But I am very far from extending the same
respect to his diction or his stanza. His style was in his own time allowed to be vicious,
so darkened with old words and peculiarities of phrase, and so remote from common use, that
Jonson boldly pronounces him to have written no language. His stanza is at once difficult and
unpleasing; tiresome to the ear by its uniformity, and to the attention by its length. It was
at first formed in imitation of the Italian poets, without due regard to the genius of our
language. The Italians have little variety of termination, and were forced to contrive such
a stanza as might admit the greatest number of similar rhymes; but our words end with so much
diversity, that it is seldom convenient for us to bring more than two of the same sound together.
If it be justly observed by Milton, that rhyme obliges poets to express their thoughts in improper
terms, these improprieties must always be multiplied, as the difficulty of rhyme is increased
by long concatenations.

The imitators of Spenser are indeed not very rigid censors of themselves, for they seem to
conclude, that when they have disfigured their lines with a few obsolete syllables, they have
accomplished their design, without considering that they ought not only to admit old words,
but to avoid new. The laws of imitation are broken by every word introduced since the time
of Spenser, as the character of Hector is violated by quoting Aristotle in the play. It would,
indeed, be difficult to exclude from a long poem all modern phrases, though it is easy to sprinkle
it with gleanings of antiquity. Perhaps, however, the style of Spenser might by long labour
be justly copied; but life is surely given us for higher purposes than to gather what our ancestors
have wisely thrown away, and to learn what is of no value, but because it has been forgotten.

No. 122. SATURDAY, MAY 18, 1751.

  Nescio qua natale solum dulcedine captos
  Ducit. OVID, Ex Pon. Lib. i. Ep. iii. 35.

  By secret charms our native land attracts.

Nothing is more subject to mistake and disappointment than anticipated judgment concerning
the easiness or difficulty of any undertaking, whether we form our opinion from the performances
of others, or from abstracted contemplation of the thing to be attempted.

Whatever is done skilfully appears to be done with ease; and art, when it is once matured to
habit, vanishes from observation. We are therefore more powerfully excited to emulation, by
those who have attained the highest degree of excellence, and whom we can therefore with least
reason hope to equal.

In adjusting the probability of success by a previous consideration of the undertaking, we
are equally in danger of deceiving ourselves. It is never easy, nor often possible, to comprise
the series of any process with all its circumstances, incidents, and variations, in a speculative
scheme. Experience soon shows us the tortuosities of imaginary rectitude, the complications
of simplicity, and the asperities of smoothness. Sudden difficulties often start up from the
ambushes of art, stop the career of activity, repress the gaiety of confidence, and when we
imagine ourselves almost at the end of our labours, drive us back to new plans and different
measures.

There are many things which we every day see others unable to perform, and perhaps have even
ourselves miscarried in attempting; and yet can hardly allow to be difficult; nor can we forbear
to wonder afresh at every new failure, or to promise certainty of success to our next essay;
but when we try, the same hindrances recur, the same inability is perceived, and the vexation
of disappointment must again be suffered.

Of the various kinds of speaking or writing, which serve necessity, or promote pleasure, none
appears so artless or easy as simple narration; for what should make him that knows the whole
order and progress of an affair unable to relate it? Yet we hourly find such as endeavour to
entertain or instruct us by recitals, clouding the facts which they intend to illustrate, and
losing themselves and their auditors in wilds and mazes, in digression and confusion. When
we have congratulated ourselves upon a new opportunity of inquiry, and new means of information,
it often happens, that without designing either deceit or concealment, without ignorance of
the fact, or unwillingness to disclose it, the relator fills the ear with empty sounds, harasses
the attention with fruitless impatience, and disturbs the imagination by a tumult of events,
without order of time, or train of consequence.

It is natural to believe, upon the same principle, that no writer has a more easy task than
the historian. The philosopher has the works of omniscience to examine; and is therefore engaged
in disquisitions, to which finite intellects are utterly unequal. The poet trusts to his invention,
and is not only in danger of those inconsistencies, to which every one is exposed by departure
from truth; but may be censured as well for deficiencies of matter, as for irregularity of
disposition, or impropriety of ornament. But the happy historian has no other labour than of
gathering what tradition pours down before him, or records treasure for his use. He has only
the actions and designs of men like himself to conceive and to relate; he is not to form, but
copy characters, and therefore is not blamed for the inconsistency of statesmen, the injustice
of tyrants, or the cowardice of commanders. The difficulty of making variety consistent, or
uniting probability with surprise, needs not to disturb him; the manners and actions of his
personages are already fixed; his materials are provided and put into his hands, and he is
at leisure to employ all his powers in arranging and displaying them.

Yet, even with these advantages, very few in any age have been able to raise themselves to
reputation by writing histories; and among the innumerable authors, who fill every nation with
accounts of their ancestors, or undertake to transmit to futurity the events of their own time,
the greater part, when fashion and novelty have ceased to recommend them, are of no other use
than chronological memorials, which necessity may sometimes require to be consulted, but which
fright away curiosity, and disgust delicacy.

It is observed, that our nation, which has produced so many authors eminent for almost every
other species of literary excellence, has been hitherto remarkably barren of historical genius;
and so far has this defect raised prejudices against us, that some have doubted whether an
Englishman can stop at that mediocrity of style, or confine his mind to that even tenour of
imagination, which narrative requires.

They who can believe that nature has so capriciously distributed understanding, have surely
no claim to the honour of serious confutation. The inhabitants of the same country have opposite
characters in different ages; the prevalence or neglect of any particular study can proceed
only from the accidental influence of some temporary cause; and if we have failed in history,
we can have failed only because history has not hitherto been diligently cultivated.

But how is it evident, that we have not historians among us, whom we may venture to place in
comparison with any that the neighbouring nations can produce? The attempt of Raleigh is deservedly
celebrated for the labour of his researches, and the elegance of his style; but he has endeavoured
to exert his judgment more than his genius, to select facts, rather than adorn them; and has
produced an historical dissertation, but seldom risen to the majesty of history.

The works of Clarendon deserve more regard. His diction is indeed neither exact in itself,
nor suited to the purpose of history. It is the effusion of a mind crowded with ideas, and
desirous of imparting them; and therefore always accumulating words, and involving one clause
and sentence in another. But there is in his negligence a rude inartificial majesty, which,
without the nicety of laboured elegance, swells the mind by its plenitude and diffusion. His
narration is not perhaps sufficiently rapid, being stopped too frequently by particularities,
which, though they might strike the author who was present at the transactions, will not equally
detain the attention of posterity. But his ignorance or carelessness of the art of writing
is amply compensated by his knowledge of nature and of policy; the wisdom of his maxims, the
justness of his reasonings, and the variety, distinctness, and strength of his characters.

But none of our writers can, in my opinion, justly contest the superiority of Knolles, who,
in his history of the Turks, has displayed all the excellencies that narration can admit. His
style, though somewhat obscured by time, and sometimes vitiated by false wit, is pure, nervous,
elevated, and clear. A wonderful multiplicity of events is so artfully arranged, and so distinctly
explained, that each facilitates the knowledge of the next. Whenever a new personage is introduced,
the reader is prepared by his character for his actions; when a nation is first attacked, or
city besieged, he is made acquainted with its history, or situation; so that a great part of
the world is brought into view. The descriptions of this author are without minuteness, and
the digressions without ostentation. Collateral events are so artfully woven into the contexture
of his principal story, that they cannot be disjoined without leaving it lacerated and broken.
There is nothing turgid in his dignity, nor superfluous in his copiousness. His orations only,
which he feigns, like the ancient historians, to have been pronounced on remarkable occasions,
are tedious and languid; and since they are merely the voluntary sports of imagination, prove
how much the most judicious and skilful may be mistaken in the estimate of their own powers.

Nothing could have sunk this author in obscurity, but the remoteness and barbarity of the people,
whose story he relates. It seldom happens, that all circumstances concur to happiness or fame.
The nation which produced this great historian, has the grief of seeing his genius employed
upon a foreign and uninteresting subject; and that writer who might have secured perpetuity
to his name, by a history of his own country, has exposed himself to the danger of oblivion,
by recounting enterprises and revolutions, of which none desire to be informed.

No. 123. TUESDAY, MAY 21, 1751.

  Quo semet est imbuta recens, servabit odorem
  Testa din.--HOR. Lib. i. Ep. ii. 69.

  What season'd first the vessel, keeps the taste. CREECH.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

Though I have so long found myself deluded by projects of honour and distinction, that I often
resolve to admit them no more into my heart; yet how determinately soever excluded, they always
recover their dominion by force or stratagem; and whenever, after the shortest relaxation of
vigilance, reason and caution return to their charge, they find hope again in possession, with
all her train of pleasures dancing about her.

Even while I am preparing to write a history of disappointed expectations, I cannot forbear
to flatter myself, that you and your readers are impatient for my performance; and that the
sons of learning have laid down several of your late papers with discontent, when they found
that Misocapelus had delayed to continue his narrative.

But the desire of gratifying the expectations that I have raised, is not the only motive of
this relation, which, having once promised it, I think myself no longer at liberty to forbear.
For, however I may have wished to clear myself from every other adhesion of trade, I hope I
shall be always wise enough to retain my punctuality, and amidst all my new arts of politeness,
continue to despise negligence, and detest falsehood.

When the death of my brother had dismissed me from the duties of a shop, I considered myself
as restored to the rights of my birth, and entitled to the rank and reception which my ancestors
obtained. I was, however, embarrassed with many difficulties at my first re-entrance into the
world; for my haste to be a gentleman inclined me to precipitate measures; and every accident
that forced me back towards my old station, was considered by me as an obstruction of my happiness.

It was with no common grief and indignation, that I found my former companions still daring
to claim my notice, and the journeymen and apprentices sometimes pulling me by the sleeve as
I was walking in the street, and without any terrour of my new sword, which was, notwithstanding,
of an uncommon size, inviting me to partake of a bottle at the old house, and entertaining
me with histories of the girls in the neighbourhood. I had always, in my officinal state, been
kept in awe by lace and embroidery; and imagined that, to fright away these unwelcome familiarities,
nothing was necessary, but that I should, by splendour of dress, proclaim my re-union with
a higher rank. I, therefore, sent for my tailor; ordered a suit with twice the usual quantity
of lace; and that I might not let my persecutors increase their confidence, by the habit of
accosting me, staid at home till it was made.

This week of confinement I passed in practising a forbidding frown, a smile of condescension,
a slight salutation, and an abrupt departure; and in four mornings was able to turn upon my
heel, with so much levity and sprightliness, that I made no doubt of discouraging all publick
attempts upon my dignity. I therefore issued forth in my new coat, with a resolution of dazzling
intimacy to a fitter distance; and pleased myself with the timidity and reverence, which I
should impress upon all who had hitherto presumed to harass me with their freedoms. But, whatever
was the cause, I did not find myself received with any new degree of respect; those whom I
intended to drive from me, ventured to advance with their usual phrases of benevolence; and
those whose acquaintance I solicited, grew more supercilious and reserved. I began soon to
repent the expense, by which I had procured no advantage, and to suspect that a shining dress,
like a weighty weapon, has no force in itself, but owes all its efficacy to him that wears it.

Many were the mortifications and calamities which I was condemned to suffer in my initiation
to politeness. I was so much tortured by the incessant civilities of my companions, that I
never passed through that region of the city but in a chair with the curtains drawn; and at
last left my lodgings, and fixed myself in the verge of the court. Here I endeavoured to be
thought a gentleman just returned from his travels, and was pleased to have my landlord believe
that I was in some danger from importunate creditors; but this scheme was quickly defeated
by a formal deputation sent to offer me, though I had now retired from business, the freedom
of my company.

I was now detected in trade, and therefore resolved to stay no longer. I hired another apartment,
and changed my servants. Here I lived very happily for three months, and, with secret satisfaction,
often overheard the family celebrating the greatness and felicity of the esquire; though the
conversation seldom ended without some complaint of my covetousness, or some remark upon my
language, or my gait. I now began to venture in the publick walks, and to know the faces of
nobles and beauties; but could not observe, without wonder, as I passed by them, how frequently
they were talking of a tailor. I longed, however, to be admitted to conversation, and was somewhat
weary of walking in crowds without a companion, yet continued to come and go with the rest,
till a lady whom I endeavoured to protect in a crowded passage, as she was about to step into
her chariot, thanked me for my civility, and told me, that, as she had often distinguished
me for my modest and respectful behaviour, whenever I set up for myself, I might expect to
see her among my first customers.

Here was an end of all my ambulatory projects. I indeed sometimes entered the walks again,
but was always blasted by this destructive lady, whose mischievous generosity recommended me
to her acquaintance. Being therefore forced to practise my adscititious character upon another
stage, I betook myself to a coffee-house frequented by wits, among whom I learned in a short
time the cant of criticism, and talked so loudly and volubly of nature, and manners, and sentiment,
and diction, and similies, and contrasts, and action, and pronunciation, that I was often desired
to lead the hiss and clap, and was feared and hated by the players and the poets. Many a sentence
have I hissed, which I did not understand, and many a groan have I uttered, when the ladies
were weeping in the boxes. At last a malignant author, whose performance I had persecuted through
the nine nights, wrote an epigram upon Tape the critick, which drove me from the pit for ever.

My desire to be a fine gentleman still continued: I therefore, after a short suspense, chose
a new set of friends at the gaming-table, and was for some time pleased with the civility and
openness with which I found myself treated. I was indeed obliged to play; but being naturally
timorous and vigilant, was never surprised into large sums. What might have been the consequence
of long familiarity with these plunderers, I had not an opportunity of knowing; for one night
the constables entered and seized us, and I was once more compelled to sink into my former
condition, by sending for my old master to attest my character.

When I was deliberating to what new qualifications I should aspire, I was summoned into the
country, by an account of my father's death. Here I had hopes of being able to distinguish
myself, and to support the honour of my family. I therefore bought guns and horses, and, contrary
to the expectation of the tenants, increased the salary of the huntsman. But when I entered
the field, it was soon discovered, that I was not destined to the glories of the chase. I was
afraid of thorns in the thicket, and of dirt in the marsh; I shivered on the brink of a river
while the sportsmen crossed it, and trembled at the sight of a five-bar gate. When the sport
and danger were over, I was still equally disconcerted; for I was effeminate, though not delicate,
and could only join a feeble whispering voice in the clamours of their triumph.

A fall, by which my ribs were broken, soon recalled me to domestick pleasures, and I exerted
all my art to obtain the favour of the neighbouring ladies; but wherever I came, there was
always some unlucky conversation upon ribands, fillets, pins, or thread, which drove all my
stock of compliments out of my memory, and overwhelmed me with shame and dejection.

Thus I passed the ten first years after the death of my brother, in which I have learned at
last to repress that ambition, which I could never gratify; and, instead of wasting more of
my life in vain endeavours after accomplishments, which, if not early acquired, no endeavours
can obtain, I shall confine my care to those higher excellencies which are in every man's power,
and though I cannot enchant affection by elegance and ease, hope to secure esteem by honesty
and truth.

I am, &c.

MISOCAPELUS.

No. 124. SATURDAY, MAY 25, 1751.

  --Taciturn sylvas inter reptare salubres,
  Curantem quicquid dignim sapiente bonoque est?
  HOR. Lib. i. Ep. iv. 4.

  To range in silence through each healthful wood,
  And muse what's worthy of the wise and good. ELPHINSTON.

The season of the year is now come, in which the theatres are shut, and the card-tables forsaken;
the regions of luxury are for a while unpeopled, and pleasure leads out her votaries to groves
and gardens, to still scenes and erratick gratifications. Those who have passed many months
in a continual tumult of diversion; who have never opened their eyes in the morning, but upon
some new appointment; nor slept at night without a dream of dances, musick, and good hands,
or of soft sighs and humble supplications; must now retire to distant provinces, where the
syrens of flattery are scarcely to be heard, where beauty sparkles without praise or envy,
and wit is repeated only by the echo.

As I think it one of the most important duties of social benevolence to give warning of the
approach of calamity, when by timely prevention it may be turned aside, or by preparatory measures
be more easily endured, I cannot feel the increasing warmth, or observe the lengthening days,
without considering the condition of my fair readers, who are now preparing to leave all that
has so long filled up their hours, all from which they have been accustomed to hope for delight;
and who, till fashion proclaims the liberty of returning to the seats of mirth and elegance,
must endure the rugged 'squire, the sober housewife, the loud huntsman, or the formal parson,
the roar of obstreperous jollity, or the dulness of prudential instruction; without any retreat,
but to the gloom of solitude, where they will yet find greater inconveniencies, and must learn,
however unwillingly, to endure themselves.

In winter, the life of the polite and gay may be said to roll on with a strong and rapid current;
they float along from pleasure to pleasure, without the trouble of regulating their own motions,
and pursue the course of the stream in all the felicity of inattention; content that they find
themselves in progression, and careless whither they are going. But the months of summer are
a kind of sleeping stagnation without wind or tide, where they are left to force themselves
forward by their own labour, and to direct their passage by their own skill; and where, if
they have not some internal principle of activity, they must be stranded upon shallows, or
lie torpid in a perpetual calm.

There are, indeed, some to whom this universal dissolution of gay societies affords a welcome
opportunity of quitting, without disgrace, the post which they have found themselves unable
to maintain; and of seeming to retreat only at the call of nature, from assemblies where, after
a short triumph of uncontested superiority, they are overpowered by some new intruder of softer
elegance or sprightlier vivacity. By these, hopeless of victory, and yet ashamed to confess
a conquest, the summer is regarded as a release from the fatiguing service of celebrity, a
dismission to more certain joys and a safer empire. They now solace themselves with the influence
which they shall obtain, where they have no rival to fear; and with the lustre which they shall
effuse, when nothing can be seen of brighter splendour. They imagine, while they are preparing
for their journey, the admiration with which the rusticks will crowd about them; plan the laws
of a new assembly; or contrive to delude provincial ignorance with a fictitious mode. A thousand
pleasing expectations swarm in the fancy; and all the approaching weeks are filled with distinctions,
honours, and authority.

But others, who have lately entered the world, or have yet had no proofs of its inconstancy
and desertion, are cut off, by this cruel interruption, from the enjoyment of their prerogatives,
and doomed to lose four months in inactive obscurity. Many complaints do vexation and desire
extort from those exiled tyrants of the town, against the inexorable sun, who pursues his course
without any regard to love or beauty; and visits either tropick at the stated time, whether
shunned or courted, deprecated or implored.

To them who leave the places of publick resort in the full bloom of reputation, and withdraw
from admiration, courtship, submission, and applause, a rural triumph can give nothing equivalent.
The praise of ignorance, and the subjection of weakness, are little regarded by beauties who
have been accustomed to more important conquests, and more valuable panegyricks. Nor indeed
should the powers which have made havock in the theatres, or borne down rivalry in courts,
be degraded to a mean attack upon the untravelled heir, or ignoble contest with the ruddy milkmaid.

How then must four long months be worn away? Four months, in which there will be no routes,
no shows, no ridottos; in which visits must be regulated by the weather, and assemblies will
depend upon the moon! The Platonists imagine, that the future punishment of those who have
in this life debased their reason by subjection to their senses, and have preferred the gross
gratifications of lewdness and luxury, to the pure and sublime felicity of virtue and contemplation,
will arise from the predominance and solicitations of the same appetites, in a state which
can furnish no means of appeasing them. I cannot but suspect that this month, bright with sunshine,
and fragrant with perfumes; this month, which covers the meadow with verdure, and decks the
gardens with all the mixtures of colorifick radiance; this month, from which the man of fancy
expects new infusions of imagery, and the naturalist new scenes of observation; this month
will chain down multitudes to the Platonick penance of desire without enjoyment, and hurry
them from the highest satisfactions, which they have yet learned to conceive, into a state
of hopeless wishes and pining recollection, where the eye of vanity will look round for admiration
to no purpose, and the hand of avarice shuffle cards in a bower with ineffectual dexterity.

From the tediousness of this melancholy suspension of life, I would willingly preserve those
who are exposed to it, only by inexperience; who want not inclination to wisdom or virtue,
though they have been dissipated by negligence, or misled by example; and who would gladly
find the way to rational happiness, though it should be necessary to struggle with habit, and
abandon fashion. To these many arts of spending time might be recommended, which would neither
sadden the present hour with weariness, nor the future with repentance.

It would seem impossible to a solitary speculatist, that a human being can want employment.
To be born in ignorance with a capacity of knowledge, and to be placed in the midst of a world
filled with variety, perpetually pressing upon the senses and irritating curiosity, is surely
a sufficient security against the languishment of inattention. Novelty is indeed necessary
to preserve eagerness and alacrity; but art and nature have stores inexhaustible by human intellects;
and every moment produces something new to him, who has quickened his faculties by diligent
observation.

Some studies, for which the country and the summer afford peculiar opportunities, I shall perhaps
endeavour to recommend in a future essay; but if there be any apprehension not apt to admit
unaccustomed ideas, or any attention so stubborn and inflexible, as not easily to comply with
new directions, even these obstructions cannot exclude the pleasure of application; for there
is a higher and nobler employment, to which all faculties are adapted by Him who gave them.
The duties of religion, sincerely and regularly performed, will always be sufficient to exalt
the meanest, and to exercise the highest understanding. That mind will never be vacant, which
is frequently recalled by stated duties to meditations on eternal interests; nor can any hour
be long, which is spent in obtaining some new qualification for celestial happiness.

No. 125. TUESDAY, MAY 28, 1751.

  Descriptas servare vices, operumque colores,
  Cur ego, si nequeo ignoroque, poëta salutor? HOR. De Ar. Poet. 86.

  But if, through weakness, or my want of art,
  I can't to every different style impart
  The proper strokes and colours it may claim,
  Why am I honour'd with a poet's name? FRANCIS.

It is one of the maxims of the civil law, that definitions are hazardous. Things modified by
human understandings, subject to varieties of complication, and changeable as experience advances
knowledge, or accident influences caprice, are scarcely to be included in any standing form
of expression, because they are always suffering some alteration of their state. Definition
is, indeed, not the province of man; every thing is set above or below our faculties. The works
and operations of nature are too great in their extent, or too much diffused in their relations,
and the performances of art too inconstant and uncertain, to be reduced to any determinate
idea. It is impossible to impress upon our minds an adequate and just representation of an
object so great that we can never take it into our view, or so mutable that it is always changing
under our eye, and has already lost its form while we are labouring to conceive it.

Definitions have been no less difficult or uncertain in criticisms than in law. Imagination,
a licentious and vagrant faculty, unsusceptible of limitations, and impatient of restraint,
has always endeavoured to baffle the logician, to perplex the confines of distinction, and
burst the inclosures of regularity. There is therefore scarcely any species of writing, of
which we can tell what is its essence, and what are its constituents; every new genius produces
some innovation, which, when invented and approved, subverts the rules which the practice of
foregoing authors had established.

Comedy has been particularly unpropitious to definers; for though perhaps they might properly
have contented themselves, with declaring it to be such a dramatick representation of human
life, as may excite mirth, they have embarrassed their definition with the means by which the
comick writers attain their end, without considering that the various methods of exhilarating
their audience, not being limited by nature, cannot be comprised in precept. Thus, some make
comedy a representation of mean and others of bad men; some think that its essence consists
in the unimportance, others in the fictitiousness of the transaction. But any man's reflections
will inform him, that every dramatick composition which raises mirth, is comick; and that,
to raise mirth, it is by no means universally necessary, that the personages should be either
mean or corrupt, nor always requisite, that the action should be trivial, nor ever, that it
should be fictitious.

If the two kinds of dramatick poetry had been defined only by their effects upon the mind,
some absurdities might have been prevented, with which the compositions of our greatest poets
are disgraced, who, for want of some settled ideas and accurate distinctions, have unhappily
confounded tragick with comick sentiments. They seem to have thought, that as the meanest of
personages constituted comedy, their greatness was sufficient to form a tragedy; and that nothing
was necessary but that they should crowd the scene with monarchs, and generals, and guards;
and make them talk, at certain intervals, of the downfall of kingdoms, and the rout of armies.
They have not considered, that thoughts or incidents, in themselves ridiculous, grow still
more grotesque by the solemnity of such characters; that reason and nature are uniform and
inflexible: and that what is despicable and absurd, will not, by any association with splendid
titles, become rational or great; that the most important affairs, by an intermixture of an
unseasonable levity, may be made contemptible; and that the robes of royalty can give no dignity
to nonsense or to folly.

"Comedy," says Horace, "sometimes raises her voice;" and Tragedy may likewise on proper occasions
abate her dignity; but as the comick personages can only depart from their familiarity of style,
when the more violent passions are put in motion, the heroes and queens of tragedy should never
descend to trifle, but in the hours of ease, and intermissions of danger. Yet in the tragedy
of Don Sebastian, when the king of Portugal is in the hands of his enemy, and having just drawn
the lot, by which he is condemned to die, breaks out into a wild boast that his dust shall
take possession of Africk, the dialogue proceeds thus between the captive and his conqueror:

  Muley Moluch. What shall I do to conquer thee?

  Seb. Impossible!
  Souls know no conquerors.

  M. Mol. I'll shew thee for a monster thro' my Afric.

  Seb. No, thou canst only shew me for a man:
  Afric is stored with monsters; man's a prodigy
  Thy subjects have not seen.

  M. Mol. Thou talk'st as if
  Still at the head of battle.

  Seb. Thou mistak'st,
  For there I would not talk.

  Benducar, the Minister. Sure he would sleep.
 This conversation, with the sly remark of the minister, can only be
found not to be comick, because it wants the probability necessary to
representations of common life, and degenerates too much towards
buffoonery and farce.

The same play affords a smart return of the general to to the emperor, who, enforcing his orders
for the death of Sebastian, vents his impatience in this abrupt threat:

  --No more replies,
  But see thou dost it: Or--

To which Dorax answers,

  Choak in that threat: I can say Or as loud.

A thousand instances of such impropriety might be produced, were not one scene in Aureng-Zebe
sufficient to exemplify it. Indamora, a captive queen, having Aureng-Zebe for her lover, employs
Arimant, to whose charge she had been entrusted, and whom she had made sensible of her charms,
to carry her message to his rival.

  ARIMANT, with a letter in his hand: INDAMORA.

  Arim. And I the messenger to him from you?
  Your empire you to tyranny pursue:
  You lay commands both cruel and unjust,
  To serve my rival, and betray my trust.

  Ind. You first betray'd your trust in loving me:
  And should not I my own advantage see?
  Serving my love, you may my friendship gain;
  You know the rest of your pretences vain.
  You must, my Arimant, you must be kind:
  'Tis in your nature, and your noble mind.

  Arim. I'll to the king, and straight my trust resign.

  Ind. His trust you may, but you shall never mine.
  Heaven made you love me for no other end,
  But to become my confidant and friend:
  As such, I keep no secret from your sight,
  And therefore make you judge how ill I write:
  Read it, and tell me freely then your mind,
  If 'tis indited, as I meant it, kind.

  Arim. I ask not heaven my freedom to restore--[Reading.
  But only for your sake--I'll read no more.
  And yet I must--
  Less for my own, than for your sorrow sad--[Reading.
  Another line like this, would make me mad--
  Heav'n! she goes on--yet more--and yet more kind!
                                                  [--As reading.
  Each sentence is a dagger to my mind.
  See me this night--[Reading.
  Thank fortune who did such a friend provide;
  For faithful Arimant shall be your guide.
  Not only to be made an instrument,
  But pre-engaged without my own consent!

  Ind. Unknown to engage you still augments my score,
  And gives you scope of meriting the more.

  Arim. The best of men
  Some int'rest in their actions must confess;
  None merit, but in hope they may possess:
  The fatal paper rather let me tear,
  Than, like Bellerophon, my own sentence hear.

  Ind. You may; but 'twill not be your best advice:
  'Twill only give me pains of writing twice.
  You know you must obey me, soon or late:
  Why should you vainly struggle with your fate?

  Arim. I thank thee, heav'n! thou hast been wondrous kind!
  Why am I thus to slavery design'd,
  And yet am cheated with a free-born mind!
  Or make thy orders with my reason suit,
  Or let me live by sense, a glorious brute--[She frowns.
  You frown, and I obey with speed, before
  That dreadful sentence comes, See me no more.

In this scene, every circumstance concurs to turn tragedy to farce. The wild absurdity of the
expedient; the contemptible subjection of the lover; the folly of obliging him to read the
letter, only because it ought to have been concealed from him; the frequent interruptions of
amorous impatience; the faint expostulations of a voluntary slave; the imperious haughtiness
of a tyrant without power; the deep reflection of the yielding rebel upon fate and free-will;
and his wise wish to lose his reason as soon as he finds himself about to do what he cannot
persuade his reason to approve, are sufficient to awaken the most torpid risibility.

There is scarce a tragedy of the last century which has not debased its most important incidents,
and polluted its most serious interlocutions, with buffoonery and meanness; but though, perhaps,
it cannot be pretended that the present age has added much to the force and efficacy of the
drama, it has at least been able to escape many faults, which either ignorance had overlooked,
or indulgence had licensed. The later tragedies, indeed, have faults of another kind, perhaps
more destructive to delight, though less open to censure. That perpetual tumour of phrase with
which every thought is now expressed by every personage, the paucity of adventures which regularity
admits, and the unvaried equality of flowing dialogue, has taken away from our present writers
almost all that dominion over the passions which was the boast of their predecessors. Yet they
may at least claim this commendation, that they avoid gross faults, and that if they cannot
often move terrour or pity, they are always careful not to provoke laughter.

No. 126. SATURDAY, JUNE 1, 1751.

  --Nihil est aliud magnum quam multa minuta.    VET. AUCT.

  Sands form the mountain, moments make the year.       YOUNG.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

Among other topicks of conversation which your papers supply, I was lately engaged in a discussion
of the character given by Tranquilla of her lover Venustulus, whom, notwithstanding the severity
of his mistress, the greater number seemed inclined to acquit of unmanly or culpable timidity.

One of the company remarked that prudence ought to be distinguished from fear; and that if
Venustulus was afraid of nocturnal adventures, no man who considered how much every avenue
of the town was infested with robbers could think him blameable; for why should life be hazarded
without prospect of honour or advantage? Another was of opinion, that a brave man might be
afraid of crossing the river in the calmest weather, and declared, that, for his part, while
there were coaches and a bridge, he would never be seen tottering in a wooden case, out of
which he might be thrown by any irregular agitation, or which might be overset by accident,
or negligence, or by the force of a sudden gust, or the rush of a larger vessel. It was his
custom, he said, to keep the security of daylight, and dry ground; for it was a maxim with
him, that no wise man ever perished by water, or was lost in the dark.

The next was humbly of opinion, that if Tranquilla had seen, like him, the cattle run roaring
about the meadows in the hot months, she would not have thought meanly of her lover for not
venturing his safety among them. His neighbour then told us, that for his part he was not ashamed
to confess, that he could not see a rat, though it was dead, without palpitation; that he had
been driven six times out of his lodgings either by rats or mice; and that he always had a
bed in the closet for his servant, whom he called up whenever the enemy was in motion. Another
wondered that any man should think himself disgraced by a precipitate retreat from a dog; for
there was always a possibility that a dog might be mad; and that surely, though there was no
danger but of being bit by a fierce animal, there was more wisdom in flight than contest. By
all these declarations another was encouraged to confess, that if he had been admitted to the
honour of paying his addresses to Tranquilla, he should have been likely to incur the same
censure; for, among all the animals upon which nature has impressed deformity and horrour,
there is none whom he durst not encounter rather than a beetle.

Thus, Sir, though cowardice is universally defined too close and anxious an attention to personal
safety, there will be found scarcely any fear, however excessive in its degree, or unreasonable
in its object, which will be allowed to characterise a coward. Fear is a passion which every
man feels so frequently predominant in his own breast, that he is unwilling to hear it censured
with great asperity; and, perhaps, if we confess the truth, the same restraint which would
hinder a man from declaiming against the frauds of any employment among those who profess it,
should withhold him from treating fear with contempt among human beings.

Yet, since fortitude is one of those virtues which the condition of our nature makes hourly
necessary, I think you cannot better direct your admonitions than against superfluous and panick
terrours. Fear is implanted in us as a preservative from evil; but its duty, like that of other
passions, is not to overbear reason, but to assist it; nor should it be suffered to tyrannize
in the imagination, to raise phantoms of horrour, or beset life with supernumerary distresses.

To be always afraid of losing life is, indeed, scarcely to enjoy a life that can deserve the
care of preservation. He that once indulges idle fears will never be at rest. Our present state
admits only of a kind of negative security; we must conclude ourselves safe when we see no
danger, or none inadequate to our powers of opposition. Death, indeed, continually hovers about
us, but hovers commonly unseen, unless we sharpen our sight by useless curiosity.

There is always a point at which caution, however solicitous, must limit its preservatives,
because one terrour often counteracts another. I once knew one of the speculatists of cowardice,
whose reigning disturbance was the dread of housebreakers. His inquiries were for nine years
employed upon the best method of barring a window, or a door; and many an hour has he spent
in establishing the preference of a bolt to a lock. He had at last, by the daily superaddition
of new expedients, contrived a door which could never be forced; for one bar was secured by
another with such intricacy of subordination, that he was himself not always able to disengage
them in the proper method. He was happy in this fortification, till being asked how he would
escape if he was threatened by fire, he discovered, that with all his care and expense, he
had only been assisting his own destruction. He then immediately tore off his bolts, and now
leaves at night his outer door half-locked, that he may not by his own folly perish in the flames.

There is one species of terrour which those who are unwilling to suffer the reproach of cowardice
have wisely dignified with the name of antipathy. A man who talks with intrepidity of the monsters
of the wilderness while they are out of sight, will readily confess his antipathy to a mole,
a weasel, or a frog. He has indeed no dread of harm from an insect or a worm, but his antipathy
turns him pale whenever they approach him. He believes that a boat will transport him with
as much safety as his neighbours, but he cannot conquer his antipathy to the water. Thus he
goes on without any reproach from his own reflections, and every day multiplies antipathies,
till he becomes contemptible to others, and burdensome to himself. It is indeed certain, that
impressions of dread may sometimes be unluckily made by objects not in themselves justly formidable;
but when fear is discovered to be groundless, it is to be eradicated like other false opinions,
and antipathies are generally superable by a single effort. He that has been taught to shudder
at a mouse, if he can persuade himself to risk one encounter, will find his own superiority,
and exchange his terrours for the pride of conquest.

I am, Sir, &c.

THRASO.

SIR, As you profess to extend your regard to the minuteness of decency, as well as to the dignity
of science, I cannot forbear to lay before you a mode of persecution by which I have been exiled
to taverns and coffee-houses, and deterred from entering the doors of my friends. Among the
ladies who please themselves with splendid furniture, or elegant entertainment, it is a practice
very common, to ask every guest how he likes the carved work of the cornice, or the figures
of the tapestry; the china at the table, or the plate on the side-board: and on all occasions
to inquire his opinion of their judgment and their choice. Melania has laid her new watch in
the window nineteen times, that she may desire me to look upon it. Calista has an art of dropping
her snuff-box by drawing out her handkerchief, that when I pick it up I may admire it; and
Fulgentia has conducted me, by mistake, into the wrong room, at every visit I have paid since
her picture was put into a new frame.

I hope, Mr. Rambler, you will inform them, that no man should be denied the privilege of silence,
or tortured to false declarations; and that though ladies may justly claim to be exempt from
rudeness, they have no right to force unwilling civilities. To please is a laudable and elegant
ambition, and is properly rewarded with honest praise; but to seize applause by violence, and
call out for commendation, without knowing, or caring to know, whether it be given from conviction,
is a species of tyranny by which modesty is oppressed, and sincerity corrupted. The tribute
of admiration, thus exacted by impudence and importunity, differs from the respect paid to
silent merit, as the plunder of a pirate from the merchant's profit.

I am, &c.

MISOCOLAX

SIR,

Your great predecessor, the Spectator, endeavoured to diffuse among his female readers a desire
of knowledge; nor can I charge you, though you do not seem equally attentive to the ladies,
with endeavouring to discourage them from any laudable pursuit. But however either he or you
may excite our curiosity, you have not yet informed us how it may be gratified. The world seems
to have formed an universal conspiracy against our understandings; our questions are supposed
not to expect answers, our arguments are confuted with a jest, and we are treated like beings
who transgress the limits of our nature whenever we aspire to seriousness or improvement.

I inquired yesterday of a gentleman eminent for astronomical skill, what made the day long
in summer, and short in winter; and was told that nature protracted the days in summer, lest
ladies should want time to walk in the park; and the nights in winter, lest they should not
have hours sufficient to spend at the card-table.

I hope you do not doubt but I heard such information with just contempt, and I desire you to
discover to this great master of ridicule, that I was far from wanting any intelligence which
he could have given me. I asked the question with no other intention than to set him free from
the necessity of silence, and give him an opportunity of mingling on equal terms with a polite
assembly, from which, however uneasy, he could not then escape, by a kind introduction of the
only subject on which I believed him able to speak with propriety.

I am, &c.

GENEROSA.

No. 127. TUESDAY, JUNE 4, 1751.

  Capisti meliust, quam desinis. Ultima primis
  Cedunt: dissimiles hic vir et ille puer.    Ovid. Ep. ix. 24.

  Succeeding years thy early fame destroy;
  Thou, who began'st a man, wilt end a boy.

Politian, a name eminent among the restorers of polite literature, when he published a collection
of epigrams, prefixed to many of them the year of his age at which they were composed. He might
design, by this information, either to boast the early maturity of his genius, or to conciliate
indulgence to the puerility of his performances. But whatever was his intent, it is remarked
by Scaliger, that he very little promoted his own reputation, because he fell below the promise
which his first productions had given, and, in the latter part of his life, seldom equalled
the sallies of his youth.

It is not uncommon for those who, at their first entrance into the world, were distinguished
for attainments or abilities, to disappoint the hopes which they had raised, and to end in
neglect and obscurity that life which they began in celebrity and honour. To the long catalogue
of the inconveniencies of old age, which moral and satirical writers have so copiously displayed,
may be often added the loss of fame.

The advance of the human mind towards any object of laudable pursuit, may be compared to the
progress of a body driven by a blow. It moves, for a time, with great velocity and vigour,
but the force of the first impulse is perpetually decreasing, and though it should encounter
no obstacle capable of quelling it by a sudden stop, the resistance of the medium through which
it passes, and the latent inequalities of the smoothest surface, will, in a short time, by
continued retardation, wholly overpower it. Some hindrances will be found in every road of
life, but he that fixes his eyes upon any thing at a distance, necessarily loses sight of all
that fills up the intermediate space, and therefore sets forward with alacrity and confidence,
nor suspects a thousand obstacles, by which he afterwards finds his passage embarrassed and
obstructed. Some are indeed stopt at once in their career by a sudden shock of calamity, or
diverted to a different direction by the cross impulse of some violent passion; but far the
greater part languish by slow degrees, deviate at first into slight obliquities, and themselves
scarcely perceive at what time their ardour forsook them, or when they lost sight of their
original design.

Weariness and negligence are perpetually prevailing by silent encroachments, assisted by different
causes, and not observed till they cannot, without great difficulty, be opposed. Labour necessarily
requires pauses of ease and relaxation, and the deliciousness of ease commonly makes us unwilling
to return to labour. We, perhaps, prevail upon ourselves to renew our attempts, but eagerly
listen to every argument for frequent interpositions of amusement; for, when indolence has
once entered upon the mind, it can scarcely be dispossessed but by such efforts as very few
are willing to exert.

It is the fate of industry to be equally endangered by miscarriage and success, by confidence
and despondency. He that engages in a great undertaking, with a false opinion of its facility,
or too high conceptions of his own strength, is easily discouraged by the first hindrance of
his advances, because he had promised himself an equal and perpetual progression without impediment
or disturbance; when unexpected interruptions break in upon him, he is in the state of a man
surprised by a tempest, where he purposed only to bask in the calm, or sport in the shallows.

It is not only common to find the difficulty of an enterprize greater, but the profit less,
than hope had pictured it. Youth enters the world with very happy prejudices in her own favour.
She imagines herself not only certain of accomplishing every adventure, but of obtaining those
rewards which the accomplishment may deserve. She is not easily persuaded to believe that the
force of merit can be resisted by obstinacy and avarice, or its lustre darkened by envy and
malignity. She has not yet learned that the most evident claims to praise or preferment may
be rejected by malice against conviction, or by indolence without examination; that they may
be sometimes defeated by artifices, and sometimes overborne by clamour; that, in the mingled
numbers of mankind, many need no other provocation to enmity than that they find themselves
excelled; that others have ceased their curiosity, and consider every man who fills the mouth
of report with a new name, as an intruder upon their retreat, and disturber of their repose;
that some are engaged in complications of interest which they imagine endangered by every innovation;
that many yield themselves up implicitly to every report which hatred disseminates or folly
scatters; and that whoever aspires to the notice of the publick, has in almost every man an
enemy and a rival; and must struggle with the opposition of the daring, and elude the stratagems
of the timorous, must quicken the frigid and soften the obdurate, must reclaim perverseness
and inform stupidity.

It is no wonder that when the prospect of reward has vanished, the zeal of enterprize should
cease; for who would persevere to cultivate the soil which he has, after long labour, discovered
to be barren? He who hath pleased himself with anticipated praises, and expected that he should
meet in every place with patronage or friendship, will soon remit his vigour, when he finds
that, from those who desire to be considered as his admirers, nothing can be hoped but cold
civility, and that many refuse to own his excellence, lest they should be too justly expected
to reward it.

A man, thus cut off from the prospect of that port to which his address and fortitude had been
employed to steer him, often abandons himself to chance and to the wind, and glides careless
and idle down the current of life, without resolution to make another effort, till he is swallowed
up by the gulph of mortality.

Others are betrayed to the same desertion of themselves by a contrary fallacy. It was said
of Hannibal, that he wanted nothing to the completion of his martial virtues, but that when
he had gained a victory he should know how to use it. The folly of desisting too soon from
successful labours, and the haste of enjoying advantages before they are secured, are often
fatal to men of impetuous desire, to men whose consciousness of uncommon powers fills them
with presumption, and who, having borne opposition down before them, and left emulation panting
behind, are early persuaded to imagine that they have reached the heights of perfection, and
that now, being no longer in danger from competitors, they may pass the rest of their days
in the enjoyment of their acquisitions, in contemplation of their own superiority, and in attention
to their own praises, and look unconcerned from their eminence upon the toils and contentions
of meaner beings.

It is not sufficiently considered in the hour of exultation, that all human excellence is comparative;
that no man performs much but in proportion to what others accomplish, or to the time and opportunities
which have been allowed him; and that he who stops at any point of excellence is every day
sinking in estimation, because his improvement grows continually more incommensurate to his
life. Yet, as no man willingly quits opinions favourable to himself, they who have once been
justly celebrated, imagine that they still have the same pretensions to regard, and seldom
perceive the diminution of their character while there is time to recover it. Nothing then
remains but murmurs and remorse; for if the spendthrift's poverty be embittered by the reflection
that he once was rich, how must the idler's obscurity be clouded by remembering that he once
had lustre!

These errours all arise from an original mistake of the true motives of action. He that never
extends his view beyond the praises or rewards of men will be dejected by neglect and envy,
or infatuated by honours and applause. But the consideration that life is only deposited in
his hands to be employed in obedience to a Master who will regard his endeavours, not his success,
would have preserved him from trivial elations and discouragements, and enabled him to proceed
with constancy and cheerfulness, neither enervated by commendation, nor intimidated by censure.

No. 128. SATURDAY, JUNE 8, 1751.

  [Greek:
    Aion d asphalaes
  Ouk egent, out Aiakida para Paelei,
  Oute par antitheo
  Kadmo legontai man broton
  Olbon hupertaton hoi
  Schein.] PIND. Py. iii. 153.

  For not the brave, or wise, or great,
  E'er yet had happiness complete:
  Nor Peleus, grandson of the sky,
    Nor Cadmus, scap'd the shafts of pain,
  Though favour'd by the Pow'rs on high,
    With every bliss that man can gain.

The writers who have undertaken the task of reconciling mankind to their present state, and
relieving the discontent produced by the various distribution of terrestrial advantages, frequently
remind us that we judge too hastily of good and evil, that we view only the superfices of life,
and determine of the whole by a very small part; and that in the condition of men it frequently
happens, that grief and anxiety lie hid under the golden robes of prosperity, and the gloom
of calamity is cheered by secret radiations of hope and comfort; as in the works of nature
the bog is sometimes covered with flowers, and the mine concealed in the barren crags.

None but those who have learned the art of subjecting their senses as well as reason to hypothetical
systems, can be persuaded by the most specious rhetorician that the lots of life are equal;
yet it cannot be denied that every one has his peculiar pleasures and vexations, that external
accidents operate variously upon different minds, and that no man can exactly judge from his
own sensations, what another would feel in the same circumstances.

If the general disposition of things be estimated by the representation which every one makes
of his own estate, the world must be considered as the abode of sorrow and misery; for how
few can forbear to relate their troubles and distresses? If we judge by the account which may
be obtained of every man's fortune from others, it may be concluded, that we all are placed
in an elysian region, overspread with the luxuriance of plenty, and fanned by the breezes of
felicity; since scarcely any complaint is uttered without censure from those that hear it,
and almost all are allowed to have obtained a provision at least adequate to their virtue or
their understanding, to possess either more than they deserve, or more than they enjoy.

We are either born with such dissimilitude of temper and inclination, or receive so many of
our ideas and opinions from the state of life in which we are engaged, that the griefs and
cares of one part of mankind seem to the other hypocrisy, folly, and affectation. Every class
of society has its cant of lamentation, which is understood or regarded by none but themselves;
and every part of life has its uneasiness, which those who do not feel them will not commiserate.
An event which spreads distraction over half the commercial world, assembles the trading companies
in councils and committees, and shakes the nerves of a thousand stockjobbers, is read by the
landlord and the farmer with frigid indifference. An affair of love, which fills the young
breast with incessant alternations of hope and fear, and steals away the night and day from
every other pleasure or employment, is regarded by them whose passions time has extinguished,
as an amusement, which can properly raise neither joy nor sorrow, and, though it may be suffered
to fill the vacuity of an idle moment, should always give way to prudence or interest.

He that never had any other desire than to fill a chest with money, or to add another manor
to his estate, who never grieved but at a bad mortgage, or entered a company but to make a
bargain, would be astonished to hear of beings known among the polite and gay by the denomination
of wits. How would he gape with curiosity, or grin with contempt, at the mention of beings
who have no wish but to speak what was never spoken before; who, if they happen to inherit
wealth, often exhaust their patrimonies in treating those who will hear them talk; and if they
are poor, neglect opportunities of improving their fortunes, for the pleasure of making others
laugh? How slowly would he believe that there are men who would rather lose a legacy than the
reputation of a distich; who think it less disgrace to want money than repartee; whom the vexation
of having been foiled in a contest of raillery is sometimes sufficient to deprive of sleep;
and who would esteem it a lighter evil to miss a profitable bargain by some accidental delay,
than not to have thought of a smart reply till the time of producing it was past? How little
would he suspect that this child of idleness and frolick enters every assembly with a beating
bosom, like a litigant on the day of decision, and revolves the probability of applause with
the anxiety of a conspirator, whose fate depends upon the next night; that at the hour of retirement
he carries home, under a show of airy negligence, a heart lacerated with envy, or depressed
with disappointment; and immures himself in his closet, that he may disencumber his memory
at leisure, review the progress of the day, state with accuracy his loss or gain of reputation,
and examine the causes of his failure or success?

Yet more remote from common conceptions are the numerous and restless anxieties, by which female
happiness is particularly disturbed. A solitary philosopher would imagine ladies born with
an exemption from care and sorrow, lulled in perpetual quiet, and feasted with unmingled pleasure;
for what can interrupt the content of those, upon whom one age has laboured after another to
confer honours, and accumulate immunities; those to whom rudeness is infamy, and insult is
cowardice; whose eye commands the brave, and whose smiles soften the severe; whom the sailor
travels to adorn, the soldier bleeds to defend, and the poet wears out life to celebrate; who
claim tribute from every art and science, and for whom all who approach them endeavour to multiply
delights, without requiring from them any returns but willingness to be pleased?

Surely, among these favourites of nature, thus unacquainted with toil and danger, felicity
must have fixed her residence; they must know only the changes of more vivid or more gentle
joys: their life must always move either to the slow or sprightly melody of the lyre of gladness;
they can never assemble but to pleasure, or retire but to peace.

Such would be the thoughts of every man who should hover at a distance round the world, and
know it only by conjecture and speculation. But experience will soon discover how easily those
are disgusted who have been made nice by plenty and tender by indulgence. He will soon see
to how many dangers power is exposed which has no other guard than youth and beauty, and how
easily that tranquillity is molested which can only be soothed with the songs of flattery.
It is impossible to supply wants as fast as an idle imagination may be able to form them, or
to remove all inconveniencies by which elegance refined into impatience may be offended. None
are so hard to please, as those whom satiety of pleasure makes weary of themselves; nor any
so readily provoked as those who have been always courted with an emulation of civility.

There are, indeed, some strokes which the envy of fate aims immediately at the fair. The mistress
of Catullus wept for her sparrow many centuries ago, and lapdogs will be sometimes sick in
the present age. The most fashionable brocade is subject to stains; a pinner, the pride of
Brussels, may be torn by a careless washer; a picture may drop from a watch; or the triumph
of a new suit may be interrupted on the first day of its enjoyment, and all distinctions of
dress unexpectedly obliterated by a general mourning.

Such is the state of every age, every sex, and every condition: all have their cares, either
from nature or from folly: and whoever therefore finds himself inclined to envy another, should
remember that he knows not the real condition which he desires to obtain, but is certain that
by indulging a vicious passion, he must lessen that happiness which he thinks already too sparingly
bestowed.

No. 129. TUESDAY, JUNE 11. 1751.

  --Nunc, O nunc, Daedale, dixit,
    Materiam, qua sis ingeniosus, habes.
  Possidet en terras, et possidet aequara, Minos:
    Nec tellus nostrae, nec patet undo fugae.
  Restat iter coelo: tentabimus ire.
    Da veniam caepto, Jupiter alte, meo. OVID. Ar. Am. Lib. ii. 33.

  Now, Daedalus, behold, by fate assign'd,
  A task proportion'd to thy mighty mind!
  Unconquer'd bars on earth and sea withstand;
  Thine, Minos, is the main, and thine the land.
  The skies are open--let us try the skies:
  Forgive, great Jove, the daring enterprize.

Moralists, like other writers, instead of casting their eyes abroad in the living world, and
endeavouring to form maxims of practice and new hints of theory, content their curiosity with
that secondary knowledge which books afford, and think themselves entitled to reverence by
a new arrangement of an ancient system, or new illustration of established principles[e]. The
sage precepts of the first instructors of the world are transmitted from age to age with little
variation, and echoed from one author to another, not perhaps without some loss of their original
force at every repercussion.

I know not whether any other reason than this idleness of imitation can be assigned for that
uniform and constant partiality, by which some vices have hitherto escaped censure, and some
virtues wanted recommendation; nor can I discover why else we have been warned only against
part of our enemies, while the rest have been suffered to steal upon us without notice; why
the heart has on one side been doubly fortified, and laid open on the other to the incursions
of errour, and the ravages of vice.

Among the favourite topicks of moral declamation, may be numbered the miscarriages of imprudent
boldness, and the folly of attempts beyond our power. Every page of every philosopher is crowded
with examples of temerity that sunk under burdens which she laid upon herself, and called out
enemies to battle by whom she was destroyed.

Their remarks are too just to be disputed, and too salutary to be rejected; but there is likewise
some danger lest timorous prudence should be inculcated, till courage and enterprise are wholly
repressed, and the mind congealed in perpetual inactivity by the fatal influence of frigorifick
wisdom.

Every man should, indeed, carefully compare his force with his undertaking; for though we ought
not to live only for our own sakes, and though therefore danger or difficulty should not be
avoided merely because we may expose ourselves to misery or disgrace; yet it may be justly
required of us, not to throw away our lives upon inadequate and hopeless designs, since we
might, by a just estimate of our abilities, become more useful to mankind.

There is an irrational contempt of danger, which approaches nearly to the folly, if not the
guilt of suicide; there is a ridiculous perseverance in impracticable schemes, which is justly
punished with ignominy and reproach. But in the wide regions of probability, which are the
proper province of prudence and election, there is always room to deviate on either side of
rectitude without rushing against apparent absurdity; and according to the inclinations of
nature, or the impressions of precept, the daring and the cautious may move in different directions
without touching upon rashness or cowardice.

That there is a middle path which it is every man's duty to find, and to keep, is unanimously
confessed: but it is likewise acknowledged that this middle path is so narrow, that it cannot
easily be discovered, and so little beaten, that there are no certain marks by which it can
be followed: the care, therefore, of all those who conduct others has been, that whenever they
decline into obliquities, they should tend towards the side of safety.

It can, indeed, raise no wonder that temerity has been generally censured; for it is one of
the vices with which few can be charged, and which therefore, great numbers are ready to condemn.
It is the vice of noble and generous minds, the exuberance of magnanimity, and the ebullition
of genius; and is therefore not regarded with much tenderness, because it never flatters us
by that appearance of softness and imbecility which is commonly necessary to conciliate compassion.
But if the same attention had been applied to the search of arguments against the folly of
pre-supposing impossibilities, and anticipating frustration, I know not whether many would
not have been roused to usefulness, who, having been taught to confound prudence with timidity,
never ventured to excel, lest they should unfortunately fail.

It is necessary to distinguish our own interest from that of others, and that distinction will
perhaps assist us in fixing the just limits of caution and adventurousness. In an undertaking
that involves the happiness or the safety of many, we have certainly no right to hazard more
than is allowed by those who partake the danger; but where only ourselves can suffer by miscarriage,
we are not confined within such narrow limits; and still less is the reproach of temerity,
when numbers will receive advantage by success, and only one be incommoded by failure.

Men are generally willing to hear precepts by which ease is favoured; and as no resentment
is raised by general representations of human folly, even in those who are most eminently jealous
of comparative reputation, we confess, without reluctance, that vain man is ignorant of his
own weakness, and therefore frequently presumes to attempt what he can never accomplish; but
it ought likewise to be remembered, that man is no less ignorant of his own powers, and might
perhaps have accomplished a thousand designs, which the prejudices of cowardice restrained
him from attempting.

It is observed in the golden verses of Pythagoras, that "Power is never far from necessity."
The vigour of the human mind quickly appears, when there is no longer any place for doubt and
hesitation, when diffidence is absorbed in the sense of danger, or overwhelmed by some resistless
passion. We then soon discover, that difficulty is, for the most part, the daughter of idleness,
that the obstacles with which our way seemed to be obstructed were only phantoms, which we
believed real, because we durst not advance to a close examination; and we learn that it is
impossible to determine without experience how much constancy may endure, or perseverance perform.

But whatever pleasure may be found in the review of distresses when art or courage has surmounted
them, few will be persuaded to wish that they may be awakened by want, or terrour, to the conviction
of their own abilities. Every one should therefore endeavour to invigorate himself by reason
and reflection, and determine to exert the latent force that nature may have reposed in him,
before the hour of exigence comes upon him, and compulsion shall torture him to diligence.
It is below the dignity of a reasonable being to owe that strength to necessity which ought
always to act at the call of choice, or to need any other motive to industry than the desire
of performing his duty.

Reflections that may drive away despair, cannot be wanting to him who considers how much life
is now advanced beyond the state of naked, undisciplined, uninstructed nature. Whatever has
been effected for convenience or elegance, while it was yet unknown, was believed impossible;
and therefore would never have been attempted, had not some, more daring than the rest, adventured
to bid defiance to prejudice and censure. Nor is there yet any reason to doubt that the same
labour would be rewarded with the same success. There are qualities in the products of nature
yet undiscovered, and combinations in the powers of art yet untried. It is the duty of every
man to endeavour that something may be added by his industry to the hereditary aggregate of
knowledge and happiness. To add much can indeed be the lot of few, but to add something, however
little, every one may hope; and of every honest endeavour, it is certain, that, however unsuccessful,
it will be at last rewarded.

[Footnote e: Johnson gained his knowledge from actual experience. He told Boswell that before
he wrote the Rambler he had been running about the world more than almost any body. Boswell's
Life of Johnson, vol. i. p. 196.; and vol. iii. pp. 20, 21.]

No. 130. SATURDAY, JUNE 15, 1751.

  Non sic prata novo vere decentia
  Æstatis calidtæ dispoliat vapor:
  Sævit solstitio cum medius dies;--
  Ut fulgor teneris qui radiat genis
  Momento rapitur! nullaque non dies
  Formosi spolium corporis abstulit.
  Res est forma fugax: quis sapiens bono
  Confidat fragili? SENECA, Hippol. act. ii. 764.

  Not faster in the summer's ray
  The spring's frail beauty fades away,
  Than anguish and decay consume
  The smiling virgin's rosy bloom.
  Some beauty's snatch'd each day, each hour;
  For beauty is a fleeting flow'r:
  Then how can wisdom e'er confide
  In beauty's momentary pride? ELPHINSTON

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

You have very lately observed that in the numerous subdivisions of the world, every class and
order of mankind have joys and sorrows of their own; we all feel hourly pain and pleasure from
events which pass unheeded before other eyes, but can scarcely communicate our perceptions
to minds pre-occupied by different objects, any more than the delight of well-disposed colours
or harmonious sounds can be imparted to such as want the senses of hearing or of sight.

I am so strongly convinced of the justness of this remark, and have on so many occasions discovered
with how little attention pride looks upon calamity of which she thinks herself not in danger,
and indolence listens to complaint when it is not echoed by her own remembrance, that though
I am about to lay the occurrences of my life before you, I question whether you will condescend
to peruse my narrative, or, without the help of some female speculatists, to be able to understand
it.

I was born a beauty. From the dawn of reason I had my regard turned wholly upon myself, nor
can recollect any thing earlier than praise and admiration. My mother, whose face had luckily
advanced her to a condition above her birth, thought no evil so great as deformity. She had
not the power of imagining any other defect than a cloudy complexion, or disproportionate features;
and therefore contemplated me as an assemblage of all that could raise envy or desire, and
predicted with triumphant fondness the extent of my conquests, and the number of my slaves.

She never mentioned any of my young acquaintance before me, but to remark how much they fell
below my perfection; how one would have had a fine face, but that her eyes were without lustre;
how another struck the sight at a distance, but wanted my hair and teeth at a nearer view;
another disgraced an elegant shape with a brown skin; some had short fingers, and others dimples
in a wrong place.

As she expected no happiness nor advantage but from beauty, she thought nothing but beauty
worthy of her care; and her maternal kindness was chiefly exercised in contrivances to protect
me from any accident that might deface me with a scar, or stain me with a freckle: she never
thought me sufficiently shaded from the sun, or screened from the fire. She was severe or indulgent
with no other intention than the preservation of my form; she excused me from work, lest I
should learn to hang down my head, or harden my finger with a needle; she snatched away my
book, because a young lady in the neighbourhood had made her eyes red with reading by a candle;
but she would scarcely suffer me to eat, lest I should spoil my shape, nor to walk lest I should
swell my ancle with a sprain. At night I was accurately surveyed from head to foot, lest I
should have suffered any diminution of my charms in the adventures of the day; and was never
permitted to sleep, till I had passed through the cosmetick discipline, part of which was a
regular lustration performed with bean-flower water and May-dews; my hair was perfumed with
variety of unguents, by some of which it was to be thickened, and by others to be curled. The
softness of my hands was secured by medicated gloves, and my bosom rubbed with a pomade prepared
by my mother, of virtue to discuss pimples, and clear discolorations.

I was always called up early, because the morning air gives a freshness to the cheeks; but
I was placed behind a curtain in my mother's chamber, because the neck is easily tanned by
the rising sun. I was then dressed with a thousand precautions, and again heard my own praises,
and triumphed in the compliments and prognostications of all that approached me.

My mother was not so much prepossessed with an opinion of my natural excellencies as not to
think some cultivation necessary to their completion. She took care that I should want none
of the accomplishments included in female education, or considered necessary in fashionable
life. I was looked upon in my ninth year as the chief ornament of the dancing-master's ball;
and Mr. Ariet used to reproach his other scholars with my performances on the harpsichord.
At twelve I was remarkable for playing my cards with great elegance of manner, and accuracy
of judgment.

At last the time came when my mother thought me perfect in my exercises, and qualified to display
in the open world those accomplishments which had yet only been discovered in select parties,
or domestick assemblies. Preparations were therefore made for my appearance on a publick night,
which she considered as the most important and critical moment of my life. She cannot be charged
with neglecting any means of recommendation, or leaving any thing to chance which prudence
could ascertain. Every ornament was tried in every position, every friend was consulted about
the colour of my dress, and the mantua-makers were harassed with directions and alterations.

At last the night arrived from which my future life was to be reckoned. I was dressed and sent
out to conquer, with a heart beating like that of an old knight-errant at his first sally.
Scholars have told me of a Spartan matron, who, when she armed her son for battle, bade him
bring back his shield, or be brought upon it. My venerable parent dismissed me to a field,
in her opinion of equal glory, with a command to shew that I was her daughter, and not to return
without a lover.

I went, and was received like other pleasing novelties with a tumult of applause. Every man
who valued himself upon the graces of his person, or the elegance of his address, crowded about
me, and wit and splendour contended for my notice. I was delightfully fatigued with incessant
civilities, which were made more pleasing by the apparent envy of those whom my presence exposed
to neglect, and returned with an attendant equal in rank and wealth to my utmost wishes, and
from this time stood in the first rank of beauty, was followed by gazers in the Mall, celebrated
in the papers of the day, imitated by all who endeavoured to rise into fashion, and censured
by those whom age or disappointment forced to retire.

My mother, who pleased herself with the hopes of seeing my exaltation, dressed me with all
the exuberance of finery; and when I represented to her that a fortune might be expected proportionate
to my appearance, told me that she should scorn the reptile who could inquire after the fortune
of a girl like me. She advised me to prosecute my victories, and time would certainly bring
me a captive who might deserve the honour of being enchained for ever.

My lovers were indeed so numerous, that I had no other care than that of determining to whom
I should seem to give the preference. But having been steadily and industriously instructed
to preserve my heart from any impressions which might hinder me from consulting my interest,
I acted with less embarrassment, because my choice was regulated by principles more clear and
certain than the caprice of approbation. When I had singled out one from the rest as more worthy
of encouragement, I proceeded in my measures by the rules of art; and yet when the ardour of
the first visits was spent, generally found a sudden declension of my influence; I felt in
myself the want of some power to diversify amusement, and enliven conversation, and could not
but suspect that my mind failed in performing the promises of my face. This opinion was soon
confirmed by one of my lovers, who married Lavinia with less beauty and fortune than mine,
because he thought a wife ought to have qualities which might make her amiable when her bloom
was past.

The vanity of my mother would not suffer her to discover any defect in one that had been formed
by her instructions, and had all the excellence which she herself could boast. She told me
that nothing so much hindered the advancement of women as literature and wit, which generally
frightened away those that could make the best settlements, and drew about them a needy tribe
of poets and philosophers, that filled their heads with wild notions of content, and contemplation,
and virtuous obscurity. She therefore enjoined me to improve my minuet-step with a new French
dancing-master, and wait the event of the next birth-night.

I had now almost completed my nineteenth year: if my charms had lost any of their softness,
it was more than compensated by additional dignity; and if the attractions of innocence were
impaired, their place was supplied by the arts of allurement. I was therefore preparing for
a new attack, without any abatement of my confidence, when, in the midst of my hopes and schemes,
I was seized by that dreadful malady which has so often put a sudden end to the tyranny of
beauty. I recovered my health after a long confinement; but when I looked again on that face
which had been often flushed with transport at its own reflection, and saw all that I had learned
to value, all that I had endeavoured to improve, all that had procured me honours or praises,
irrecoverably destroyed, I sunk at once into melancholy and despondence. My pain was not much
consoled or alleviated by my mother, who grieved that I had not lost my life together with
my beauty; and declared, that she thought a young woman divested of her charms had nothing
for which those who loved her could desire to save her from the grave.

Having thus continued my relation to the period from which my life took a new course, I shall
conclude it in another letter, if, by publishing this, you shew any regard for the correspondence
of,

Sir, &c.

VICTORIA.

No. 131. TUESDAY, JUNE 18, 1751.

    --Fatis accede, Deisque,
  Et cole felices, miseros fuge. sidera terrae
  Ut distant, ut flamma mari, sic utile recto. LUCAN. Lib. viii. 486.

  Still follow where auspicious fates invite;
  Caress the happy, and the wretched slight.
  Sooner shall jarring elements unite,
  Than truth with gain, than interest with right. F. LEWIS.

There is scarcely any sentiment in which, amidst the innumerable varieties of inclination that
nature or accident have scattered in the world, we find greater numbers concurring, than in
the wish for riches; a wish, indeed, so prevalent that it may be considered as universal and
transcendental, as the desire in which all other desires are included, and of which the various
purposes which actuate mankind are only subordinate species and different modifications.

Wealth is the general centre of inclination, the point to which all minds preserve an invariable
tendency, and from which they afterwards diverge in numberless directions. Whatever is the
remote or ultimate design, the immediate care is to be rich; and in whatever enjoyment we intend
finally to acquiesce, we seldom consider it as attainable but by the means of money. Of wealth
therefore all unanimously confess the value, nor is there any disagreement but about the use.

No desire can be formed which riches do not assist to gratify. He that places his happiness
in splendid equipage or numerous dependants, in refined praise or popular acclamations, in
the accumulation of curiosities or the revels of luxury, in splendid edifices or wide plantations,
must still, either by birth or acquisition, possess riches. They may be considered as the elemental
principles of pleasure, which may be combined with endless diversity; as the essential and
necessary substance, of which only the form is left to be adjusted by choice.

The necessity of riches being thus apparent, it is not wonderful that almost every mind has
been employed in endeavours to acquire them; that multitudes have vied in arts by which life
is furnished with accommodations, and which therefore mankind may reasonably be expected to reward.

It had, indeed, been happy, if this predominant appetite had operated only in concurrence with
virtue, by influencing none but those who were zealous to deserve what they were eager to possess,
and had abilities to improve their own fortunes by contributing to the ease or happiness of
others. To have riches and to have merit would then have been the same, and success might reasonably
have been considered as a proof of excellence.

But we do not find that any of the wishes of men keep a stated proportion to their powers of
attainment. Many envy and desire wealth, who can never procure it by honest industry or useful
knowledge. They therefore turn their eyes about to examine what other methods can be found
of gaining that which none, however impotent or worthless, will be content to want.

A little inquiry will discover that there are nearer ways to profit than through the intricacies
of art, or up the steeps of labour; what wisdom and virtue scarcely receive at the close of
life, as the recompense of long toil and repeated efforts, is brought within the reach of subtilty
and dishonesty by more expeditious and compendious measures: the wealth of credulity is an
open prey to falsehood; and the possessions of ignorance and imbecility are easily stolen away
by the conveyances of secret artifice, or seized by the gripe of unresisted violence.

It is likewise not hard to discover that riches always procure protection for themselves, that
they dazzle the eyes of inquiry, divert the celerity of pursuit, or appease the ferocity of
vengeance. When any man is incontestably known to have large possessions, very few think it
requisite to inquire by what practices they were obtained; the resentment of mankind rages
only against the struggles of feeble and timorous corruption, but when it has surmounted the
first opposition, it is afterwards supported by favour, and animated by applause.

The prospect of gaining speedily what is ardently desired, and the certainty of obtaining by
every accession of advantage an addition of security, have so far prevailed upon the passions
of mankind, that the peace of life is destroyed by a general and incessant struggle for riches.
It is observed of gold, by an old epigrammatist, that "To have it is to be in fear, and to
want it is to be in sorrow." There is no condition which is not disquieted either with the
care of gaining or of keeping money; and the race of man may be divided in a political estimate
between those who are practising fraud, and those who are repelling it.

If we consider the present state of the world, it will be found, that all confidence is lost
among mankind, that no man ventures to act, where money can be endangered upon the faith of
another. It is impossible to see the long scrolls in which every contract is included, with
all their appendages of seals and attestation, without wondering at the depravity of those
beings, who must be restrained from violation of promise by such formal and publick evidences,
and precluded from equivocation and subterfuge by such punctilious minuteness. Among all the
satires to which folly and wickedness have given occasion, none is equally severe with a bond
or a settlement.

Of the various arts by which riches may be obtained, the greater part are at the first view
irreconcileable with the laws of virtue; some are openly flagitious, and practised not only
in neglect, but in defiance of faith and justice; and the rest are on every side so entangled
with dubious tendencies, and so beset with perpetual temptations, that very few, even of those
who are not yet abandoned, are able to preserve their innocence, or can produce any other claim
to pardon than that they deviated from the right less than others, and have sooner and more
diligently endeavoured to return.

One of the chief characteristicks of the golden age, of the age in which neither care nor danger
had intruded on mankind, is the community of possessions: strife and fraud were totally excluded,
and every turbulent passion was stilled by plenty and equality. Such were indeed happy times,
but such times can return no more. Community of possession must include spontaneity of production;
for what is obtained by labour will be of right the property of him by whose labour it is gained.
And while a rightful claim to pleasure or to affluence must be procured either by slow industry
or uncertain hazard, there will always be multitudes whom cowardice or impatience incite to
more safe and more speedy methods, who strive to pluck the fruit without cultivating the tree,
and to share the advantages of victory without partaking the danger of the battle. In later
ages, the conviction of the danger to which virtue is exposed while the mind continues open
to the influence of riches, has determined many to vows of perpetual poverty; they have suppressed
desire by cutting off the possibility of gratification, and secured their peace by destroying
the enemy whom they had no hope of reducing to quiet subjection. But, by debarring themselves
from evil, they have rescinded many opportunities of good; they have too often sunk into inactivity
and uselessness; and, though they have forborne to injure society, have not fully paid their
contributions to its happiness.

While riches are so necessary to present convenience, and so much more easily obtained by crimes
than virtues, the mind can only be secured from yielding to the continual impulse of covetousness
by the preponderation of unchangeable and eternal motives. Gold will turn the intellectual
balance, when weighed only against reputation; but will be light and ineffectual when the opposite
scale is charged with justice, veracity, and piety[f].

No. 132. SATURDAY, JUNE 22, 1751.

  --Dociles imitandis
  Turpibus ac pravis omnes sumus.--JUV. Sat. xiv. 40.

  The mind of mortals, in perverseness strong,
  Imbibes with dire docility the wrong.

TO THE RAMBLER.

MR. RAMBLER,

I was bred a scholar, and after the usual course of education, found it necessary to employ
for the support of life that learning which I had almost exhausted my little fortune in acquiring.
The lucrative professions drew my regard with equal attraction; each presented ideas which
excited my curiosity, and each imposed duties which terrified my apprehension.

There is no temper more unpropitious to interest than desultory application and unlimited inquiry,
by which the desires are held in a perpetual equipoise, and the mind fluctuates between different
purposes without determination. I had books of every kind round me, among which I divided my
time as caprice or accident directed. I often spent the first hours of the day, in considering
to what study I should devote the rest, and at last snatched up any author that lay upon the
table, or perhaps fled to a coffee-house for deliverance from the anxiety of irresolution,
and the gloominess of solitude.

Thus my little patrimony grew imperceptibly less, till I was roused from my literary slumber
by a creditor, whose importunity obliged me to pacify him with so large a sum, that what remained
was not sufficient to support me more than eight months. I hope you will not reproach me with
avarice or cowardice, if I acknowledge that I now thought myself in danger of distress, and
obliged to endeavour after some certain competence.

There have been heroes of negligence, who have laid the price of their last acre in a drawer,
and, without the least interruption of their tranquillity, or abatement of their expenses,
taken out one piece after another, till there was no more remaining. But I was not born to
such dignity of imprudence, or such exaltation above the cares and necessities of life; I therefore
immediately engaged my friends to procure me a little employment, which might set me free from
the dread of poverty, and afford me time to plan out some final scheme of lasting advantage.

My friends were struck with honest solicitude, and immediately promised their endeavours for
my extrication. They did not suffer their kindness to languish by delay, but prosecuted their
inquiries with such success, that in less than a month I was perplexed with variety of offers
and contrariety of prospects.

I had however no time for long pauses of consideration; and therefore soon resolved to accept
the office of instructing a young nobleman in the house of his father: I went to the seat at
which the family then happened to reside, was received with great politeness, and invited to
enter immediately on my charge. The terms offered were such as I should willingly have accepted,
though my fortune had allowed me greater liberty of choice: the respect with which I was treated,
flattered my vanity; and perhaps the splendour of the apartments, and the luxury of the table,
were not wholly without their influence. I immediately complied with the proposals, and received
the young lord into my care.

Having no desire to gain more than I should truly deserve, I very diligently prosecuted my
undertaking, and had the satisfaction of discovering in my pupil a flexible temper, a quick
apprehension, and a retentive memory. I did not much doubt that my care would, in time, produce
a wise and useful counsellor to the state, though my labours were somewhat obstructed by want
of authority, and the necessity of complying with the freaks of negligence, and of waiting
patiently for the lucky moment of voluntary attention. To a man whose imagination was filled
with the dignity of knowledge, and to whom a studious life had made all the common amusements
insipid and contemptible, it was not very easy to suppress his indignation, when he saw himself
forsaken in the midst of his lecture, for an opportunity to catch an insect, and found his
instructions debarred from access to the intellectual faculties, by the memory of a childish
frolick, or the desire of a new play-thing.

Those vexations would have recurred less frequently, had not his mamma, by entreating at one
time that he should be excused from a task as a reward for some petty compliance, and withholding
him from his book at another, to gratify herself or her visitants with his vivacity, shewn
him that every thing was more pleasing and more important than knowledge, and that study was
to be endured rather than chosen, and was only the business of those hours which pleasure left
vacant, or discipline usurped.

I thought it my duty to complain, in tender terms, of these frequent avocations; but was answered,
that rank and fortune might reasonably hope for some indulgence; that the retardation of my
pupil's progress would not be imputed to any negligence or inability of mine; and that with
the success which satisfied every body else, I might surely satisfy myself. I had now done
my duty, and without more remonstrances continued to inculcate my precepts whenever they could
be heard, gained every day new influence, and found that by degrees my scholar began to feel
the quick impulses of curiosity, and the honest ardour of studious ambition.

At length it was resolved to pass a winter in London. The lady had too much fondness for her
son to live five months without him, and too high an opinion of his wit and learning to refuse
her vanity the gratification of exhibiting him to the publick. I remonstrated against too early
an acquaintance with cards and company; but, with a soft contempt of my ignorance and pedantry,
she said, that he had been already confined too long to solitary study, and it was now time
to shew him the world; nothing was more a brand of meanness than bashful timidity; gay freedom
and elegant assurance were only to be gained by mixed conversation, a frequent intercourse
with strangers, and a timely introduction to splendid assemblies; and she had more than once
observed, that his forwardness and complaisance began to desert him, that he was silent when
he had not something of consequence to say, blushed whenever he happened to find himself mistaken,
and hung down his head in the presence of the ladies, without the readiness of reply, and activity
of officiousness, remarkable in young gentlemen that are bred in London.

Again I found resistance hopeless, and again thought it proper to comply. We entered the coach,
and in four days were placed in the gayest and most magnificent region of the town. My pupil,
who had for several years lived at a remote seat, was immediately dazzled with a thousand beams
of novelty and shew. His imagination was filled with the perpetual tumult of pleasure that
passed before him, and it was impossible to allure him from the window, or to overpower by
any charm of eloquence the rattle of coaches, and the sounds which echoed from the doors in
the neighbourhood. In three days his attention, which he began to regain, was disturbed by
a rich suit, in which he was equipped for the reception of company, and which, having been
long accustomed to a plain dress, he could not at first survey without ecstacy.

The arrival of the family was now formally notified; every hour of every day brought more intimate
or more distant acquaintances to the door; and my pupil was indiscriminately introduced to
all, that he might accustom himself to change of faces, and be rid with speed of his rustick
diffidence. He soon endeared himself to his mother by the speedy acquisition or recovery of
her darling qualities; his eyes sparkle at a numerous assembly, and his heart dances at the
mention of a ball. He has at once caught the infection of high life, and has no other test
of principles or actions than the quality of those to whom they are ascribed. He begins already
to look down on me with superiority, and submits to one short lesson in a week, as an act of
condescension rather than obedience; for he is of opinion, that no tutor is properly qualified
who cannot speak French; and having formerly learned a few familiar phrases from his sister's
governess, he is every day soliciting his mamma to procure him a foreign footman, that he may
grow polite by his conversation. I am not yet insulted, but find myself likely to become soon
a superfluous incumbrance, for my scholar has now no time for science, or for virtue; and the
lady yesterday declared him so much the favourite of every company, that she was afraid he
would not have an hour in the day to dance and fence.

I am, &c.

EUMATHES.

[Footnote f: Johnson often conversed, as well as wrote, on riches. In his conversations on
the subject, amidst his often indulged laxity of talk, there was ever a deep insight into the
human heart. Boswell vol. i. p. 422.

When Simonides was asked whether it were better to be wise or rich, he gave an answer in favour
of wealth. "For," said he, "I always behold the wise lingering at the gates of the wealthy."
Aristot. Rhet. ii. 18.]

No. 133. TUESDAY, JUNE 25, 1751.

  Magna quidem, sacris quæ dat præcepta libellis
  Victrix fortune sapientia. Dicimus autem
  Hos quoque felices, qui ferre incommoda vitæ,
  Nec jactare jugum, vita didicere magistra. Juv. Sat. xiii. 19.

  Let Stoicks ethicks' haughty rules advance
  To combat fortune, and to conquer chance:
  Yet happy those, though not so learn'd are thought,
  Whom life instructs, who by experience taught,
  For new to come from past misfortunes look,
  Nor shake the yoke, which galls the more 'tis shook. CREECH.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

You have shewn, by the publication of my letter, that you think the life of Victoria not wholly
unworthy of the notice of a philosopher: I shall therefore continue my narrative, without any
apology for unimportance which you have dignified, or for inaccuracies which you are to correct.

When my life appeared to be no longer in danger, and as much of my strength was recovered as
enabled me to bear the agitation of a coach, I was placed at a lodging in a neighbouring village,
to which my mother dismissed me with a faint embrace, having repeated her command not to expose
my face too soon to the sun or wind, and told me that with care I might perhaps become tolerable
again. The prospect of being tolerable had very little power to elevate the imagination of
one who had so long been accustomed to praise and ecstacy; but it was some satisfaction to
be separated from my mother, who was incessantly ringing the knell of departed beauty, and
never entered my room without the whine of condolence, or the growl of anger. She often wandered
over my face, as travellers over the ruins of a celebrated city, to note every place which
had once been remarkable for a happy feature. She condescended to visit my retirement, but
always left me more melancholy; for after a thousand trifling inquiries about my diet, and
a minute examination of my looks, she generally concluded with a sigh, that I should never
more be fit to be seen.

At last I was permitted to return home, but found no great improvement of my condition; for
I was imprisoned in my chamber as a criminal, whose appearance would disgrace my friends, and
condemn me to be tortured into new beauty. Every experiment which the officiousness of folly
could communicate, or the credulity of ignorance admit, was tried upon me. Sometimes I was
covered with emollients, by which it was expected that all the scars would be filled, and my
cheeks plumped up to their former smoothness; and sometimes I was punished with artificial
excoriations, in hopes of gaining new graces with a new skin. The cosmetick science was exhausted
upon me; but who can repair the ruins of nature? My mother was forced to give me rest at last,
and abandon me to the fate of a fallen toast, whose fortune she considered as a hopeless game,
no longer worthy of solicitude or attention.

The condition of a young woman who has never thought or heard of any other excellence than
beauty, and whom the sudden blast of disease wrinkles in her bloom, is indeed sufficiently
calamitous. She is at once deprived of all that gave her eminence or power; of all that elated
her pride, or animated her activity; all that filled her days with pleasure, and her nights
with hope; all that gave gladness to the present hour, or brightened her prospects of futurity.
It is perhaps not in the power of a man whose attention has been divided by diversity of pursuits,
and who has not been accustomed to derive from others much of his happiness, to image to himself
such helpless destitution, such dismal inanity. Every object of pleasing contemplation is at
once snatched away, and the soul finds every receptacle of ideas empty, or filled only with
the memory of joys that can return no more. All is gloomy privation, or impotent desire; the
faculties of anticipation slumber in despondency, or the powers of pleasure mutiny for employment.

I was so little able to find entertainment for myself, that I was forced in a short time to
venture abroad as the solitary savage is driven by hunger from his cavern. I entered with all
the humility of disgrace into assemblies, where I had lately sparkled with gaiety, and towered
with triumph. I was not wholly without hope, that dejection had misrepresented me to myself,
and that the remains of my former face might yet have some attraction and influence; but the
first circle of visits convinced me, that my reign was at an end; that life and death were
no longer in my hands; that I was no more to practise the glance of command, or the frown of
prohibition; to receive the tribute of sighs and praises, or be soothed with the gentle murmurs
of amorous timidity. My opinion was now unheard, and my proposals were unregarded; the narrowness
of my knowledge, and the meanness of my sentiments, were easily discovered, when the eyes were
no longer engaged against the judgment; and it was observed, by those who had formerly been
charmed with my vivacious loquacity, that my understanding was impaired as well as my face,
and that I was no longer qualified to fill a place in any company but a party at cards.

It is scarcely to be imagined how soon the mind sinks to a level with the condition. I, who
had long considered all who approached me as vassals condemned to regulate their pleasures
by my eyes, and harass their inventions for my entertainment, was in less than three weeks
reduced to receive a ticket with professions of obligation; to catch with eagerness at a compliment;
and to watch with all the anxiousness of dependance, lest any little civility that was paid
me should pass unacknowledged.

Though the negligence of the men was not very pleasing when compared with vows and adoration,
yet it was far more supportable than the insolence of my own sex. For the first ten months
after my return into the world, I never entered a single house in which the memory of my downfall
was not revived. At one place I was congratulated on my escape with life; at another I heard
of the benefits of early inoculation; by some I have been told in express terms, that I am
not yet without my charms; others have whispered at my entrance, This is the celebrated beauty.
One told me of a wash that would smooth the skin; and another offered me her chair that I might
not front the light. Some soothed me with the observation that none can tell how soon my case
may be her own; and some thought it proper to receive me with mournful tenderness, formal condolence,
and consolatory blandishments.

Thus was I every day harassed with all the stratagems of well-bred malignity; yet insolence
was more tolerable than solitude, and I therefore persisted to keep my time at the doors of
my acquaintance, without gratifying them with any appearance of resentment or depression. I
expected that their exultation would in time vapour away; that the joy of their superiority
would end with its novelty; and that I should be suffered to glide along in my present form
among the nameless multitude, whom nature never intended to excite envy or admiration, nor
enabled to delight the eye or inflame the heart.

This was naturally to be expected, and this I began to experience. But when I was no longer
agitated by the perpetual ardour of resistance, and effort of perseverance, I found more sensibly
the want of those entertainments which had formerly delighted me; the day rose upon me without
an engagement; and the evening closed in its natural gloom, without summoning me to a concert
or a ball. None had any care to find amusements for me, and I had no power of amusing myself.
Idleness exposed me to melancholy, and life began to languish in motionless indifference.

Misery and shame are nearly allied. It was not without many struggles that I prevailed on myself
to confess my uneasiness to Euphemia, the only friend who had never pained me with comfort
or with pity. I at last laid my calamities before her, rather to ease my heart, than receive
assistance. "We must distinguish," said she, "my Victoria, those evils which are imposed by
Providence, from those to which we ourselves give the power of hurting us. Of your calamity,
a small part is the infliction of Heaven, the rest is little more than the corrosion of idle
discontent. You have lost that which may indeed sometimes contribute to happiness, but to which
happiness is by no means inseparably annexed. You have lost what the greater number of the
human race never have possessed; what those on whom it is bestowed for the most part possess
in vain; and what you, while it was yours, knew not how to use: you have only lost early what
the laws of nature forbid you to keep long, and have lost it while your mind is yet flexible,
and while you have time to substitute more valuable and more durable excellencies. Consider
yourself, my Victoria, as a being born to know, to reason, and to act; rise at once from your
dream of melancholy to wisdom and to piety; you will find that there are other charms than
those of beauty, and other joys than the praise of fools."

I am, Sir, &c.

VICTORIA.

No. 134. SATURDAY, JUNE 29, 1751.

  Quis scit an adjiciant hodiernae crastina summae
  Tempora Dii superi? HOR. Lib. iv. Ode vii. 16.

  Who knows if Heav'n, with ever-bounteous pow'r,
  Shall add to-morrow to the present hour? FRANCIS.

I sat yesterday morning employed in deliberating on which, among the various subjects that
occurred to my imagination, I should bestow the paper of to-day. After a short effort of meditation
by which nothing was determined, I grew every moment more irresolute, my ideas wandered from
the first intention, and I rather wished to think, than thought upon any settled subject; till
at last I was awakened from this dream of study by a summons from the press; the time was now
come for which I had been thus negligently purposing to provide, and, however dubious or sluggish,
I was now necessitated to write.

Though to a writer whose design is so comprehensive and miscellaneous, that he may accommodate
himself with a topick from every scene of life, or view of nature, it is no great aggravation
of his task to be obliged to a sudden composition; yet I could not forbear to reproach myself
for having so long neglected what was unavoidably to be done, and of which every moment's idleness
increased the difficulty. There was however some pleasure in reflecting that I, who had only
trifled till diligence was necessary, might still congratulate myself upon my superiority to
multitudes, who have trifled till diligence is vain; who can by no degree of activity or resolution
recover the opportunities which have slipped away; and who are condemned by their own carelessness
to hopeless calamity and barren sorrow.

The folly of allowing ourselves to delay what we know cannot be finally escaped, is one of
the general weaknesses, which, in spite of the instruction of moralists, and the remonstrances
of reason, prevail to a greater or less degree in every mind; even they who most steadily withstand
it, find it, if not the most violent, the most pertinacious of their passions, always renewing
its attacks, and though often vanquished, never destroyed.

It is indeed natural to have particular regard to the time present, and to be most solicitous
for that which is by its nearness enabled to make the strongest impressions. When therefore
any sharp pain is to be suffered, or any formidable danger to be incurred, we can scarcely
exempt ourselves wholly from the seducements of imagination; we readily believe that another
day will bring some support or advantage which we now want; and are easily persuaded, that
the moment of necessity which we desire never to arrive, is at a great distance from us.

Thus life is languished away in the gloom of anxiety, and consumed in collecting resolutions
which the next morning dissipates; in forming purposes which we scarcely hope to keep, and
reconciling ourselves to our own cowardice by excuses, which, while we admit them, we know
to be absurd. Our firmness is by the continual contemplation of misery, hourly impaired; every
submission to our fear enlarges its dominion; we not only waste that time in which the evil
we dread might have been suffered and surmounted, but even where procrastination produces no
absolute increase of our difficulties, make them less superable to ourselves by habitual terrours.
When evils cannot be avoided, it is wise to contract the interval of expectation; to meet the
mischiefs which will overtake us if we fly; and suffer only their real malignity, without the
conflicts of doubt, and anguish of anticipation.

To act is far easier than to suffer; yet we every day see the progress of life retarded by
the vis inertiae, the mere repugnance to motion, and find multitudes repining at the want of
that which nothing but idleness hinders them from enjoying. The case of Tantalus, in the region
of poetick punishment, was somewhat to be pitied, because the fruits that hung about him retired
from his hand; but what tenderness can be claimed by those who, though perhaps they suffer
the pains of Tantalus, will never lift their hands for their own relief?

There is nothing more common among this torpid generation than murmurs and complaints; murmurs
at uneasiness which only vacancy and suspicion expose them to feel, and complaints of distresses
which it is in their own power to remove. Laziness is commonly associated with timidity. Either
fear originally prohibits endeavours by infusing despair of success; or the frequent failure
of irresolute struggles, and the constant desire of avoiding labour, impress by degrees false
terrours on the mind. But fear, whether natural or acquired, when once it has full possession
of the fancy, never fails to employ it upon visions of calamity, such as, if they are not dissipated
by useful employment, will soon overcast it with horrours, and embitter life not only with
those miseries by which all earthly beings are really more or less tormented, but with those
which do not yet exist, and which can only be discerned by the perspicacity of cowardice.

Among all who sacrifice future advantage to present inclination, scarcely any gain so little
as those that suffer themselves to freeze in idleness. Others are corrupted by some enjoyment
of more or less power to gratify the passions; but to neglect our duties, merely to avoid the
labour of performing them, a labour which is always punctually rewarded, is surely to sink
under weak temptations. Idleness never can secure tranquillity; the call of reason and of conscience
will pierce the closest pavilion of the sluggard, and though it may not have force to drive
him from his down, will be loud enough to hinder him from sleep. Those moments which he cannot
resolve to make useful, by devoting them to the great business of his being, will still be
usurped by powers that will not leave them to his disposal; remorse and vexation will seize
upon them, and forbid him to enjoy what he is so desirous to appropriate.

There are other causes of inactivity incident to more active faculties and more acute discernment.
He to whom many objects of pursuit arise at the same time, will frequently hesitate between
different desires, till a rival has precluded him, or change his course as new attractions
prevail, and harass himself without advancing. He who sees different ways to the same end,
will, unless he watches carefully over his own conduct, lay out too much of his attention upon
the comparison of probabilities, and the adjustment of expedients, and pause in the choice
of his road till some accident intercepts his journey. He whose penetration extends to remote
consequences, and who, whenever he applies his attention to any design, discovers new prospects
of advantage, and possibilities of improvement, will not easily be persuaded that his project
is ripe for execution; but will superadd one contrivance to another, endeavour to unite various
purposes in one operation, multiply complications, and refine niceties, till he is entangled
in his own scheme, and bewildered in the perplexity of various intentions. He that resolves
to unite all the beauties of situation in a new purchase, must waste his life in roving to
no purpose from province to province. He that hopes in the same house to obtain every convenience,
may draw plans and study Palladio, but will never lay a stone. He will attempt a treatise on
some important subject, and amass materials, consult authors, and study all the dependant and
collateral parts of learning, but never conclude himself qualified to write. He that has abilities
to conceive perfection, will not easily be content without it; and since perfection cannot
be reached, will lose the opportunity of doing well in the vain hope of unattainable excellence.

The certainty that life cannot be long, and the probability that it will be much shorter than
nature allows, ought to awaken every man to the active prosecution of whatever he is desirous
to perform. It is true, that no diligence can ascertain success; death may intercept the swiftest
career; but he who is cut off in the execution of an honest undertaking, has at least the honour
of falling in his rank, and has fought the battle though he missed the victory.

No. 135. TUESDAY, JULY 2, 1751.

  Coelum, non animum, mutant. HOR. Lib. i. Ep. xi. 27.

  Place may be chang'd; but who can change his mind?

It is impossible to take a view on any side, or observe any of the various classes that form
the great community of the world, without discovering the influence of example; and admitting
with new conviction the observation of Aristotle, that man is an imitative being. The greater,
far the greater number, follow the track which others have beaten, without any curiosity after
new discoveries, or ambition of trusting themselves to their own conduct. And, of those who
break the ranks and disorder the uniformity of the march, most return in a short time from
their deviation, and prefer the equal and steady satisfaction of security before the frolicks
of caprice and the honours of adventure.

In questions difficult or dangerous it is indeed natural to repose upon authority, and, when
fear happens to predominate, upon the authority of those whom we do not in general think wiser
than ourselves. Very few have abilities requisite for the discovery of abstruse truth; and
of those few some want leisure, and some resolution. But it is not so easy to find the reason
of the universal submission to precedent where every man might safely judge for himself; where
no irreparable loss can be hazarded, nor any mischief of long continuance incurred. Vanity
might be expected to operate where the more powerful passions are not awakened; the mere pleasure
of acknowledging no superior might produce slight singularities, or the hope of gaining some
new degree of happiness awaken the mind to invention or experiment.

If in any case the shackles of prescription could be wholly shaken off, and the imagination
left to act without control, on what occasion should it be expected, but in the selection of
lawful pleasure? Pleasure, of which the essence is choice; which compulsion dissociates from
every thing to which nature has united it; and which owes not only its vigour but its being
to the smiles of liberty. Yet we see that the senses, as well as the reason, are regulated
by credulity; and that most will feel, or say that they feel, the gratifications which others
have taught them to expect.

At this time of universal migration, when almost every one, considerable enough to attract
regard, has retired, or is preparing with all the earnestness of distress to retire, into the
country; when nothing is to be heard but the hopes of speedy departure, or the complaints of
involuntary delay; I have often been tempted to inquire what happiness is to be gained, or
what inconvenience to be avoided, by this stated recession? Of the birds of passage, some follow
the summer and some the winter, because they live upon sustenance which only summer or winter
can supply; but of the annual flight of human rovers it is much harder to assign the reason,
because they do not appear either to find or seek any thing which is not equally afforded by
the town and country.

I believe that many of these fugitives may have heard of men whose continual wish was for the
quiet of retirement, who watched every opportunity to steal away from observation, to forsake
the crowd, and delight themselves with the society of solitude. There is indeed scarcely any
writer who has not celebrated the happiness of rural privacy, and delighted himself and his
reader with the melody of birds, the whisper of groves, and the murmur of rivulets; nor any
man eminent for extent of capacity, or greatness of exploits, that has not left behind him
some memorials of lonely wisdom, and silent dignity.

But almost all absurdity of conduct arises from the imitation of those whom we cannot resemble.
Those who thus testified their weariness of tumult and hurry, and hasted with so much eagerness
to the leisure of retreat, were either men overwhelmed with the pressure of difficult employments,
harassed with importunities, and distracted with multiplicity; or men wholly engrossed by speculative
sciences, who having no other end of life but to learn and teach, found their searches interrupted
by the common commerce of civility, and their reasonings disjointed by frequent interruptions.
Such men might reasonably fly to that ease and convenience which their condition allowed them
to find only in the country. The statesman who devoted the greater part of his time to the
publick, was desirous of keeping the remainder in his own power. The general, ruffled with
dangers, wearied with labours, and stunned with acclamations, gladly snatched an interval of
silence and relaxation. The naturalist was unhappy where the works of Providence were not always
before him. The reasoner could adjust his systems only where his mind was free from the intrusion
of outward objects.

Such examples of solitude very few of those who are now hastening from the town, have any pretensions
to plead in their own justification, since they cannot pretend either weariness of labour,
or desire of knowledge. They purpose nothing more than to quit one scene of idleness for another,
and after having trifled in publick, to sleep in secrecy. The utmost that they can hope to
gain is the change of ridiculousness to obscurity, and the privilege of having fewer witnesses
to a life of folly. He who is not sufficiently important to be disturbed in his pursuits, but
spends all his hours according to his own inclination, and has more hours than his mental faculties
enable him to fill either with enjoyment or desires, can have nothing to demand of shades and
valleys. As bravery is said to be a panoply, insignificancy is always a shelter.

There are, however, pleasures and advantages in a rural situation, which are not confined to
philosophers and heroes. The freshness of the air, the verdure of the woods, the paint of the
meadows, and the unexhausted variety which summer scatters upon the earth, may easily give
delight to an unlearned spectator. It is not necessary that he who looks with pleasure on the
colours of a flower should study the principles of vegetation, or that the Ptolemaick and Copernican
system should be compared before the light of the sun can gladden, or its warmth invigorate.
Novelty is itself a source of gratification; and Milton justly observes, that to him who has
been long pent up in cities, no rural object can be presented, which will not delight or refresh
some of his senses.

Yet even these easy pleasures are missed by the greater part of those who waste their summer
in the country. Should any man pursue his acquaintances to their retreats, he would find few
of them listening to Philomel, loitering in woods, or plucking daisies, catching the healthy
gale of the morning, or watching the gentle coruscations of declining day. Some will be discovered
at a window by the road side, rejoicing when a new cloud of dust gathers towards them, as at
the approach of a momentary supply of conversation, and a short relief from the tediousness
of unideal vacancy. Others are placed in the adjacent villages, where they look only upon houses
as in the rest of the year, with no change of objects but what a remove to any new street in
London might have given them. The same set of acquaintances still settle together, and the
form of life is not otherwise diversified than by doing the same things in a different place.
They pay and receive visits in the usual form, they frequent the walks in the morning, they
deal cards at night, they attend to the same tattle, and dance with the same partners; nor
can they, at their return to their former habitation, congratulate themselves on any other
advantage, than that they have passed their time like others of the same rank; and have the
same right to talk of the happiness and beauty of the country, of happiness which they never
felt, and beauty which they never regarded.

To be able to procure its own entertainments, and to subsist upon its own stock, is not the
prerogative of every mind. There are indeed understandings so fertile and comprehensive, that
they can always feed reflection with new supplies, and suffer nothing from the preclusion of
adventitious amusements; as some cities have within their own walls enclosed ground enough
to feed their inhabitants in a siege. But others live only from day to day, and must be constantly
enabled, by foreign supplies, to keep out the encroachments of languor and stupidity. Such
could not indeed be blamed for hovering within reach of their usual pleasure, more than any
other animal for not quitting its native element, were not their faculties contracted by their
own fault. But let not those who go into the country, merely because they dare not be left
alone at home, boast their love of nature, or their qualifications for solitude; nor pretend
that they receive instantaneous infusions of wisdom from the Dryads, and are able, when they
leave smoke and noise behind, to act, or think, or reason for themselves.

No. 136. SATURDAY, JULY 6, 1751.

  [Greek: Echthrus gar moi keimos, omos aidao pulusin,
  Os ch eteron men keuthei eni phresin, allo de bazei.]
  HOMER, [Greek: I'.] 313.

  Who dares think one thing, and another tell,
  My heart detests him as the gates of Hell. POPE.

The regard which they whose abilities are employed in the works of imagination claim from the
rest of mankind, arises in a great measure from their influence on futurity. Rank may be conferred
by princes, and wealth bequeathed by misers or by robbers; but the honours of a lasting name,
and the veneration of distant ages, only the sons of learning have the power of bestowing.
While therefore it continues one of the characteristicks of rational nature to decline oblivion,
authors never can be wholly overlooked in the search after happiness, nor become contemptible
but by their own fault.

The man who considers himself as constituted the ultimate judge of disputable characters, and
entrusted with the distribution of the last terrestrial rewards of merit, ought to summon all
his fortitude to the support of his integrity, and resolve to discharge an office of such dignity
with the most vigilant caution and scrupulous justice. To deliver examples to posterity, and
to regulate the opinion of future times, is no slight or trivial undertaking; nor is it easy
to commit more atrocious treason against the great republick of humanity, than by falsifying
its records and misguiding its decrees.

To scatter praise or blame without regard to justice, is to destroy the distinction of good
and evil. Many have no other test of actions than general opinion; and all are so far influenced
by a sense of reputation, that they are often restrained by fear of reproach, and excited by
hope of honour, when other principles have lost their power; nor can any species of prostitution
promote general depravity more than that which destroys the force of praise, by shewing that
it may be acquired without deserving it, and which, by setting free the active and ambitious
from the dread of infamy, lets loose the rapacity of power, and weakens the only authority
by which greatness is controlled.

Praise, like gold and diamonds, owes its value only to its scarcity. It becomes cheap as it
becomes vulgar, and will no longer raise expectation, or animate enterprise. It is therefore
not only necessary, that wickedness, even when it is not safe to censure it, be denied applause,
but that goodness be commended only in proportion to its degree; and that the garlands, due
to the great benefactors of mankind, be not suffered to fade upon the brow of him who can boast
only petty services and easy virtues.

Had these maxims been universally received, how much would have been added to the task of dedication,
the work on which all the power of modern wit has been exhausted. How few of these initial
panegyricks had appeared, if the author had been obliged first to find a man of virtue, then
to distinguish the distinct species and degree of his desert, and at last to pay him only the
honours which he might justly claim. It is much easier to learn the name of the last man whom
chance has exalted to wealth and power, to obtain by the intervention of some of his domesticks
the privilege of addressing him, or, in confidence of the general acceptance of flattery, to
venture on an address without any previous solicitation; and after having heaped upon him all
the virtues to which philosophy had assigned a name, inform him how much more might be truly
said, did not the fear of giving pain to his modesty repress the raptures of wonder and the
zeal of veneration.

Nothing has so much degraded literature from its natural rank, as the practice of indecent
and promiscuous dedication; for what credit can he expect who professes himself the hireling
of vanity, however profligate, and without shame or scruple, celebrates the worthless, dignifies
the mean, and gives to the corrupt, licentious, and oppressive, the ornaments which ought only
to add grace to truth, and loveliness to innocence? Every other kind of adulation, however
shameful, however mischievous, is less detestable than the crime of counterfeiting characters,
and fixing the stamp of literary sanction upon the dross and refuse of the world.

Yet I would not overwhelm the authors with the whole load of infamy, of which part, perhaps
the greater part, ought to fall upon their patrons. If he that hires a bravo, partakes the
guilt of murder, why should he who bribes a flatterer, hope to be exempted from the shame of
falsehood? The unhappy dedicator is seldom without some motives which obstruct, though not
destroy, the liberty of choice; he is oppressed by miseries which he hopes to relieve, or inflamed
by ambition which he expects to gratify. But the patron has no incitements equally violent;
he can receive only a short gratification, with which nothing but stupidity could dispose him
to be pleased. The real satisfaction which praise can afford is by repeating aloud the whispers
of conscience, and by shewing us that we have not endeavoured to deserve well in vain. Every
other encomium is, to an intelligent mind, satire and reproach; the celebration of those virtues
which we feel ourselves to want, can only impress a quicker sense of our own defects, and shew
that we have not yet satisfied the expectations of the world, by forcing us to observe how
much fiction must contribute to the completion of our character.

Yet sometimes the patron may claim indulgence; for it does not always happen, that the encomiast
has been much encouraged to his attempt. Many a hapless author, when his book, and perhaps
his dedication, was ready for the press, has waited long before any one would pay the price
of prostitution, or consent to hear the praises destined to insure his name against the casualties
of time; and many a complaint has been vented against the decline of learning, and neglect
of genius, when either parsimonious prudence has declined expense, or honest indignation rejected
falsehood. But if at last, after long inquiry and innumerable disappointments, he find a lord
willing to hear of his own eloquence and taste, a statesman desirous of knowing how a friendly
historian will represent his conduct, or a lady delighted to leave to the world some memorial
of her wit and beauty, such weakness cannot be censured as an instance of enormous depravity.
The wisest man may, by a diligent solicitor, be surprised in the hour of weakness, and persuaded
to solace vexation, or invigorate hope, with the musick of flattery.

To censure all dedications as adulatory and servile, would discover rather envy than justice.
Praise is the tribute of merit, and he that has incontestably distinguished himself by any
publick performance, has a right to all the honours which the publick can bestow. To men thus
raised above the rest of the community, there is no need that the book or its author should
have any particular relation; that the patron is known to deserve respect, is sufficient to
vindicate him that pays it. To the same regard from particular persons, private virtue and
less conspicuous excellence may be sometimes entitled. An author may with great propriety inscribe
his work to him by whose encouragement it was undertaken, or by whose liberality he has been
enabled to prosecute it, and he may justly rejoice in his own fortitude that dares to rescue
merit from obscurity.

  Acribus exemplis videor te claudere: misce
  Ergo aliquid nostris de moribus.--

  Thus much I will indulge thee for thy ease,
  And mingle something of our times to please.   Dryden, jun.

I know not whether greater relaxation may not he indulged, and whether hope as well as gratitude
may not unblamably produce a dedication; but let the writer who pours out his praises only
to propitiate power, or attract the attention of greatness, be cautious lest his desire betray
him to exuberant eulogies. We are naturally more apt to please ourselves with the future than
the past, and while we luxuriate in expectation, may be easily persuaded to purchase what we
yet rate, only by imagination, at a higher price than experience will warrant.

But no private views of personal regard can discharge any man from his general obligations
to virtue and to truth. It may happen in the various combinations of life, that a good man
may receive favours from one, who, notwithstanding his accidental beneficence, cannot be justly
proposed to the imitation of others, and whom therefore he must find some other way of rewarding
than by public celebrations. Self-love has indeed many powers of seducement; but it surely
ought not to exalt any individual to equality with the collective body of mankind, or persuade
him that a benefit conferred on him is equivalent to every other virtue. Yet many, upon false
principles of gratitude, have ventured to extol wretches, whom all but their dependents numbered
among the reproaches of the species, and whom they would likewise have beheld with the same
scorn, had they not been hired to dishonest approbation.

To encourage merit with praise is the great business of literature; but praise must lose its
influence, by unjust or negligent distribution; and he that impairs its value may be charged
with misapplication of the power that genius puts into his hands, and with squandering on guilt
the recompense of virtue.

No. 137. TUESDAY, JULY 9, 1751.

  Dum vitant stulti vitia, in contraria currunt.
  Hor. Lib. i. Sat. ii. 24.

  --Whilst fools one vice condemn,
  They run into the opposite extreme. CREECH.

That wonder is the effect of ignorance, has been often observed. The awful stillness of attention,
with which the mind is overspread at the first view of an unexpected effect, ceases when we
have leisure to disentangle complications and investigate causes. Wonder is a pause of reason,
a sudden cessation of the mental progress, which lasts only while the understanding is fixed
upon some single idea, and is at an end when it recovers force enough to divide the object
into its parts, or mark the intermediate gradations from the first agent to the last consequence.

It may be remarked with equal truth, that ignorance is often the effect of wonder. It is common
for those who have never accustomed themselves to the labour of inquiry, nor invigorated their
confidence by conquests over difficulty, to sleep in the gloomy quiescence of astonishment,
without any effort to animate inquiry, or dispel obscurity. What they cannot immediately conceive,
they consider as too high to be reached, or too extensive to be comprehended; they therefore
content themselves with the gaze of folly, forbear to attempt what they have no hopes of performing,
and resign the pleasure of rational contemplation to more pertinacious study, or more active
faculties.

Among the productions of mechanick art, many are of a form so different from that of their
first materials, and many consist of parts so numerous and so nicely adapted to each other,
that it is not possible to view them without amazement. But when we enter the shops of artificers,
observe the various tools by which every operation is facilitated, and trace the progress of
a manufacture through the different hands, that, in succession to each other, contribute to
its perfection, we soon discover that every single man has an easy task, and that the extremes,
however remote, of natural rudeness and artificial elegance, are joined by a regular concatenation
of effects, of which every one is introduced by that which precedes it, and equally introduces
that which is to follow.

The same is the state of intellectual and manual performances. Long calculations or complex
diagrams affright the timorous and unexperienced from a second view; but if we have skill sufficient
to analyze them into simple principles, it will be discovered that our fear was groundless.
Divide and conquer, is a principle equally just in science as in policy. Complication is a
species of confederacy, which, while it continues united, bids defiance to the most active
and vigorous intellect; but of which every member is separately weak, and which may therefore
be quickly subdued, if it can once be broken.

The chief art of learning, as Locke has observed, is to attempt but little at a time. The widest
excursions of the mind are made by short flights frequently repeated; the most lofty fabricks
of science are formed by the continued accumulation of single propositions.

It often happens, whatever be the cause, that impatience of labour, or dread of miscarriage,
seizes those who are most distinguished for quickness of apprehension; and that they who might
with greatest reason promise themselves victory, are least willing to hazard the encounter.
This diffidence, where the attention is not laid asleep by laziness, or dissipated by pleasures,
can arise only from confused and general views, such as negligence snatches in haste, or from
the disappointment of the first hopes formed by arrogance without reflection. To expect that
the intricacies of science will be pierced by a careless glance, or the eminences of fame ascended
without labour, is to expect a particular privilege, a power denied to the rest of mankind;
but to suppose that the maze is inscrutable to diligence, or the heights inaccessible to perseverance,
is to submit tamely to the tyranny of fancy, and enchain the mind in voluntary shackles.

It is the proper ambition of the heroes in literature to enlarge the boundaries of knowledge
by discovering and conquering new regions of the intellectual world. To the success of such
undertakings perhaps some degree of fortuitous happiness is necessary, which no man can promise
or procure to himself; and therefore doubt and irresolution may be forgiven in him that ventures
into the unexplored abysses of truth, and attempts to find his way through the fluctuations
of uncertainty, and the conflicts of contradiction. But when nothing more is required, than
to pursue a path already beaten, and to trample obstacles which others have demolished, why
should any man so much distrust his own intellect as to imagine himself unequal to the attempt?

It were to be wished that they who devote their lives to study would at once believe nothing
too great for their attainment, and consider nothing as too little for their regard; that they
would extend their notice alike to science and to life, and unite some knowledge of the present
world to their acquaintance with past ages and remote events.

Nothing has so much exposed men of learning to contempt and ridicule, as their ignorance of
things which are known to all but themselves. Those who have been taught to consider the institutions
of the schools, as giving the last perfection to human abilities, are surprised to see men
wrinkled with study, yet wanting to be instructed in the minute circumstances of propriety,
or the necessary forms of daily transaction; and quickly shake off their reverence for modes
of education, which they find to produce no ability above the rest of mankind.

"Books," says Bacon, "can never teach the use of books." The student must learn by commerce
with mankind to reduce his speculations to practice, and accommodate his knowledge to the purposes
of life.

It is too common for those who have been bred to scholastick professions, and passed much of
their time in academies where nothing but learning confers honours, to disregard every other
qualification, and to imagine that they shall find mankind ready to pay homage to their knowledge,
and to crowd about them for instruction. They therefore step out from their cells into the
open world with all the confidence of authority and dignity of importance; they look round
about them at once with ignorance and scorn on a race of beings to whom they are equally unknown
and equally contemptible, but whose manners they must imitate, and with whose opinions they
must comply, if they desire to pass their time happily among them.

To lessen that disdain with which scholars are inclined to look on the common business of the
world, and the unwillingness with which they condescend to learn what is not to be found in
any system of philosophy, it may be necessary to consider that though admiration is excited
by abstruse researches and remote discoveries, yet pleasure is not given, nor affection conciliated,
but by softer accomplishments, and qualities more easily communicable to those about us. He
that can only converse upon questions, about which only a small part of mankind has knowledge
sufficient to make them curious, must lose his days in unsocial silence, and live in the crowd
of life without a companion. He that can only be useful on great occasions, may die without
exerting his abilities, and stand a helpless spectator of a thousand vexations which fret away
happiness, and which nothing is required to remove but a little dexterity of conduct and readiness
of expedients.

No degree of knowledge attainable by man is able to set him above the want of hourly assistance,
or to extinguish the desire of fond endearments, and tender officiousness; and therefore, no
one should think it unnecessary to learn those arts by which friendship may be gained. Kindness
is preserved by a constant reciprocation of benefits or interchange of pleasures; but such
benefits only can be bestowed, as others are capable to receive, and such pleasures only imparted,
as others are qualified to enjoy.

By this descent from the pinnacles of art no honour will be lost; for the condescensions of
learning are always overpaid by gratitude. An elevated genius employed in little things, appears,
to use the simile of Longinus, like the sun in his evening declination: he remits his splendour
but retains his magnitude, and pleases more though he dazzles less.

No. 138. SATURDAY, JULY 13, 1751.

  O tantum libeat mecum tibi sordida rura,
  Atque humiles habitare casas, et figere cervos. VIRG. EC. ii 28.

  With me retire, and leave the pomp of courts
  For humble cottages and rural sports.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

Though the contempt with which you have treated the annual migrations of the gay and busy part
of mankind is justified by daily observation; since most of those who leave the town, neither
vary their entertainments nor enlarge their notions; yet I suppose you do not intend to represent
the practice itself as ridiculous, or to declare that he whose condition puts the distribution
of his time into his own power may not properly divide it between the town and country.

That the country, and only the country, displays the inexhaustible varieties of nature, and
supplies the philosophical mind with matter for admiration and inquiry, never was denied; but
my curiosity is very little attracted by the colour of a flower, the anatomy of an insect,
or the structure of a nest; I am generally employed upon human manners, and therefore fill
up the months of rural leisure with remarks on those who live within the circle of my notice.
If writers would more frequently visit those regions of negligence and liberty, they might
diversify their representations, and multiply their images, for in the country are original
characters chiefly to be found. In cities, and yet more in courts, the minute discriminations
which distinguish one from another are for the most part effaced, the peculiarities of temper
and opinion are gradually worn away by promiscuous converse, as angular bodies and uneven surfaces
lose their points and asperities by frequent attrition against one another, and approach by
degrees to uniform rotundity. The prevalence of fashion, the influence of example, the desire
of applause, and the dread of censure, obstruct the natural tendencies of the mind, and check
the fancy in its first efforts to break forth into experiments of caprice.

Few inclinations are so strong as to grow up into habits, when they must struggle with the
constant opposition of settled forms and established customs. But in the country every man
is a separate and independent being: solitude flatters irregularity with hopes of secrecy;
and wealth, removed from the mortification of comparison, and the awe of equality, swells into
contemptuous confidence, and sets blame and laughter at defiance; the impulses of nature act
unrestrained, and the disposition dares to shew itself in its true form, without any disguise
of hypocrisy, or decorations of elegance. Every one indulges the full enjoyment of his own
choice, and talks and lives with no other view than to please himself, without inquiring how
far he deviates from the general practice, or considering others as entitled to any account
of his sentiments or actions. If he builds or demolishes, opens or encloses, deluges or drains,
it is not his care what may be the opinion of those who are skilled in perspective or architecture,
it is sufficient that he has no landlord to controul him, and that none has any right to examine
in what projects the lord of the manour spends his own money on his own grounds.

For this reason it is not very common to want subjects for rural conversation. Almost every
man is daily doing something which produces merriment, wonder, or resentment, among his neighbours.
This utter exemption from restraint leaves every anomalous quality to operate in its full extent,
and suffers the natural character to diffuse itself to every part of life. The pride which,
under the check of publick observation, would have been only vented among servants and domesticks,
becomes in a country baronet the torment of a province, and instead of terminating in the destruction
of China-ware and glasses, ruins tenants, dispossesses cottagers, and harasses villages with
actions of trespass and bills of indictment.

It frequently happens that, even without violent passions, or enormous corruption, the freedom
and laxity of a rustick life produces remarkable particularities of conduct or manner. In the
province where I now reside, we have one lady eminent for wearing a gown always of the same
cut and colour; another for shaking hands with those that visit her; and a third for unshaken
resolution never to let tea or coffee enter her house.

But of all the female characters which this place affords, I have found none so worthy of attention
as that of Mrs. Busy, a widow, who lost her husband in her thirtieth year, and has since passed
her time at the manour-house in the government of her children, and the management of the estate.

Mrs. Busy was married at eighteen from a boarding-school, where she had passed her time like
other young ladies, in needle-work, with a few intervals of dancing and reading. When she became
a bride she spent one winter with her husband in town, where, having no idea of any conversation
beyond the formalities of a visit, she found nothing to engage her passions: and when she had
been one night at court, and two at an opera, and seen the Monument, the Tombs, and the Tower,
she concluded that London had nothing more to shew, and wondered that when women had once seen
the world, they could not be content to stay at home. She therefore went willingly to the ancient
seat, and for some years studied housewifery under Mr. Busy's mother, with so much assiduity,
that the old lady, when she died, bequeathed her a caudle-cup, a soup-dish, two beakers, and
a chest of table-linen spun by herself.

Mr. Busy, finding the economical qualities of his lady, resigned his affairs wholly into her
hands, and devoted his life to his pointers and his hounds. He never visited his estates but
to destroy the partridges or foxes; and often committed such devastations in the rage of pleasure,
that some of his tenants refused to hold their lands at the usual rent. Their landlady persuaded
them to be satisfied, and entreated her husband to dismiss his dogs, with many exact calculations
of the ale drunk by his companions, and corn consumed by the horses, and remonstrances against
the insolence of the huntsman, and the frauds of the groom. The huntsman was too necessary
to his happiness to be discarded; and he had still continued to ravage his own estate, had
he not caught a cold and a fever by shooting mallards in the fens. His fever was followed by
a consumption, which in a few months brought him to the grave.

Mrs. Busy was too much an economist to feel either joy or sorrow at his death. She received
the compliments and consolations of her neighbours in a dark room, out of which she stole privately
every night and morning to see the cows milked; and after a few days declared that she thought
a widow might employ herself better than in nursing grief; and that, for her part, she was
resolved that the fortunes of her children should not be impaired by her neglect.

She therefore immediately applied herself to the reformation of abuses. She gave away the dogs,
discharged the servants of the kennel and stable, and sent the horses to the next fair, but
rated at so high a price that they returned unsold. She was resolved to have nothing idle about
her, and ordered them to be employed in common drudgery. They lost their sleekness and grace,
and were soon purchased at half the value.

She soon disencumbered herself from her weeds, and put on a riding-hood, a coarse apron, and
short petticoats, and has turned a large manour into a farm, of which she takes the management
wholly upon herself. She rises before the sun to order the horses to their gears, and sees
them well rubbed down at their return from work; she attends the dairy morning and evening,
and watches when a calf falls that it may be carefully nursed; she walks out among the sheep
at noon, counts the lambs, and observes the fences, and, where she finds a gap, stops it with
a bush till it can be better mended. In harvest she rides a-field in the waggon, and is very
liberal of her ale from a wooden bottle. At her leisure hours she looks goose eggs, airs the
wool-room, and turns the cheese.

When respect or curiosity brings visitants to her house, she entertains them with prognosticks
of a scarcity of wheat, or a rot among the sheep, and always thinks herself privileged to dismiss
them, when she is to see the hogs fed, or to count her poultry on the roost.

The only things neglected about her are her children, whom she has taught nothing but the lowest
household duties. In my last visit I met Miss Busy carrying grains to a sick cow, and was entertained
with the accomplishments of her eldest son, a youth of such early maturity, that though he
is only sixteen, she can trust him to sell corn in the market. Her younger daughter, who is
eminent for her beauty, though somewhat tanned in making hay, was busy in pouring out ale to
the ploughmen, that every one might have an equal share.

I could not but look with pity on this young family, doomed by the absurd prudence of their
mother to ignorance and meanness: but when I recommended a more elegant education, was answered,
that she never saw bookish or finical people grow rich, and that she was good for nothing herself
till she had forgotten the nicety of the boarding-school.

I am, Yours, &c.

BUCOLUS.

No. 139. TUESDAY, JULY 16, 1751

  --Sit quod vis simplex duntanat et unum. Hor. Art. Poet. 23.

  Let ev'ry piece be simple and be one.

It is required by Aristotle to the perfection of a tragedy, and is equally necessary to every
other species of regular composition, that it should have a beginning, a middle, and an end.
"The beginning," says he, "is that which hath nothing necessarily previous, but to which that
which follows is naturally consequent; the end, on the contrary, is that which by necessity,
or, at least, according to the common course of things, succeeds something else, but which
implies nothing consequent to itself; the middle is connected on one side to something that
naturally goes before, and on the other to something that naturally follows it."

Such is the rule laid down by this great critick, for the disposition of the different parts
of a well-constituted fable. It must begin where it may be made intelligible without introduction;
and end where the mind is left in repose, without expectation of any further event. The intermediate
passages must join the last effect to the first cause, by a regular and unbroken concatenation;
nothing must be, therefore, inserted, which does not apparently arise from something foregoing,
and properly make way for something that succeeds it.

This precept is to be understood in its rigour only with respect to great and essential events,
and cannot be extended in the same force to minuter circumstances and arbitrary decorations,
which yet are more happy, as they contribute more to the main design; for it is always a proof
of extensive thought and accurate circumspection, to promote various purposes by the same act;
and the idea of an ornament admits use, though it seems to exclude necessity.

Whoever purposes, as it is expressed by Milton, to build the lofty rhyme, must acquaint himself
with this law of poetical architecture, and take care that his edifice be solid as well as
beautiful; that nothing stand single or independent, so as that it may be taken away without
injuring the rest; but that, from the foundation to the pinnacles, one part rest firm upon another.

The regular and consequential distribution is among common authors frequently neglected; but
the failures of those, whose example can have no influence, may be safely overlooked, nor is
it of much use to recall obscure and unguarded names to memory for the sake of sporting with
their infamy. But if there is any writer whose genius can embellish impropriety, and whose
authority can make errour venerable, his works are the proper objects of critical inquisition.
To expunge faults where there are no excellencies is a task equally useless with that of the
chymist, who employs the arts of separation and refinement upon ore in which no precious metal
is contained to reward his operations.

The tragedy of Samson Agonistes has been celebrated as the second work of the great author
of Paradise Lost, and opposed, with all the confidence of triumph, to the dramatick performances
of other nations. It contains, indeed, just sentiments, maxims of wisdom, and oracles of piety,
and many passages written with the ancient spirit of choral poetry, in which there is a just
and pleasing mixture of Seneca's moral declamation, with the wild enthusiasm of the Greek writers.
It is, therefore, worthy of examination, whether a performance thus illuminated with genius,
and enriched with learning, is composed according to the indispensable laws of Aristotelian
criticism: and, omitting, at present, all other considerations, whether it exhibits a beginning,
a middle, and an end.

The beginning is undoubtedly beautiful and proper, opening with a graceful abruptness, and
proceeding naturally to a mournful recital of facts necessary to be known:

  Samson. A little onward lend thy guiding hand
  To these dark steps, a little further on;
  For yonder bank hath choice of sun and shade:
  There I am wont to sit, when any chance
  Relieves me from my task of servile toil,
  Daily in the common prison else enjoin'd me.--
  O, wherefore was my birth from Heav'n foretold
  Twice by an Angel?--
  Why was my breeding order'd and prescrib'd,
  As of a person separate to God,
  Design'd for great exploits; if I must die
  Betray'd, captiv'd, and both my eyes put out?--
  Whom have I to complain of but myself?
  Who this high gift of strength committed to me,
  In what part lodg'd, how easily bereft me,
  Under the seal of silence could not keep:
  But weakly to a woman must reveal it.

His soliloquy is interrupted by a chorus or company of men of his own tribe, who condole his
miseries, extenuate his fault, and conclude with a solemn vindication of divine justice. So
that at the conclusion of the first act there is no design laid, no discovery made, nor any
disposition formed towards the consequent event.

In the second act, Manoah, the father of Samson, comes to seek his son, and, being shewn him
by the chorus, breaks out into lamentations of his misery, and comparisons of his present with
his former state, representing to him the ignominy which his religion suffers, by the festival
this day celebrated in honour of Dagon, to whom the idolaters ascribed his overthrow.

              --Thou bear'st
  Enough, and more, the burthen of that fault;
  Bitterly hast thou paid, and still art paying
  That rigid score. A worse thing yet remains,
  This day the Philistines a popular feast
  Here celebrate in Gaza; and proclaim
  Great pomp, and sacrifice, and praises loud
  To Dagon, as their God who hath deliver'd
  Thee, Samson, bound and blind, into their hands,
  Them out of thine, who slew'st them many a slain.

Samson, touched with this reproach, makes a reply equally penitential and pious, which his
father considers as the effusion of prophetick confidence:

  Samson.--He, be sure,
  Will not connive, or linger, thus provok'd,
  But will arise and his great name assert:
  Dagon must stoop, and shall ere long receive
  Such a discomfit, as shall quite despoil him
  Of all these boasted trophies won on me.

  Manoah. With cause this hope relieves thee, and these words
  I as a prophecy receive; for God,
  Nothing more certain, will not long defer
  To vindicate the glory of his name.

This part of the dialogue, as it might tend to animate or exasperate Samson, cannot, I think,
be censured as wholly superfluous; but the succeeding dispute, in which Samson contends to
die, and which his father breaks off, that he may go to solicit his release, is only valuable
for its own beauties, and has no tendency to introduce any thing that follows it.

The next event of the drama is the arrival of Dalila, with all her graces, artifices, and allurements.
This produces a dialogue, in a very high degree elegant and instructive, from which she retires,
after she has exhausted her persuasions, and is no more seen nor heard of; nor has her visit
any effect but that of raising the character of Samson.

In the fourth act enters Harapha, the giant of Gath, whose name had never been mentioned before,
and who has now no other motive of coming, than to see the man whose strength and actions are
so loudly celebrated:

  Haraph.--Much I have heard
  Of thy prodigious might and feats perform'd,
  Incredible to me, in this displeas'd,
  That I was never present in the place
  Of those encounters, where we might have tried
  Each other's force in camp or listed fields;
  And now am come to see of whom such noise
  Hath walk'd about, and each limb to survey,
  If thy appearance answer loud report.

Samson challenges him to the combat; and, after an interchange of reproaches, elevated by repeated
defiance on one side, and imbittered by contemptuous insults on the other, Harapha retires;
we then hear it determined by Samson, and the chorus, that no consequence good or bad will
proceed from their interview:

  Chorus. He will directly to the lords, I fear,
  And with malicious counsel stir them up
  Some way or other yet farther to afflict thee.

  Sams. He must allege some cause, and offer'd fight
  Will not dare mention, lest a question rise
  Whether he durst accept the offer or not;
  And, that he durst not, plain enough appear'd.

At last, in the fifth act, appears a messenger from the lords assembled at the festival of
Dagon, with a summons by which Samson is required to come and entertain them with some proof
of his strength. Samson, after a short expostulation, dismisses him with a firm and resolute
refusal; but, during the absence of the messenger, having a while defended the propriety of
his conduct, he at last declares himself moved by a secret impulse to comply, and utters some
dark presages of a great event to be brought to pass by his agency, under the direction of
Providence:

  Sams. Be of good courage, I begin to feel
  Some rousing motions in me, which dispose
  To something extraordinary my thoughts.
  I with this messenger will go along,
  Nothing to do, be sure, that may dishonour
  Our Law, or stain my vow of Nazarite.
  If there be aught of presage in the mind,
  This day will be remarkable in my life
  By some great act, or of my days the last.

While Samson is conducted off by the messenger, his father returns with hopes of success in
his solicitation, upon which he confers with the chorus till their dialogue is interrupted,
first by a shout of triumph, and afterwards by screams of horrour and agony. As they stand
deliberating where they shall be secure, a man who had been present at the show enters, and
relates how Samson, having prevailed on his guide to suffer him to lean against the main pillars
of the theatrical edifice, tore down the roof upon the spectators and himself:

             --Those two massy pillars,
  With horrible convulsion, to and fro
  He tugg'd, he shook, till down they came, and drew
  The whole roof after them, with burst of thunder
  Upon the heads of all who sat beneath--
  Samson, with these immixt, inevitably
  Pull'd down the same destruction on himself.

This is undoubtedly a just and regular catastrophe, and the poem, therefore, has a beginning
and an end which Aristotle himself could not have disapproved; but it must be allowed to want
a middle, since nothing passes between the first act and the last, that either hastens or delays
the death of Samson. The whole drama, if its superfluities were cut off, would scarcely fill
a single act; yet this is the tragedy which ignorance has admired, and bigotry applauded.

No. 140. SATURDAY, JULY 20, 1751.

  --Quis tam Lucili fautor inepte est,
  Ut non hoc fateatur? HOR. Lib. i. Sat. x. 2.

  What doating bigot, to his faults so blind,
  As not to grant me this, can Milton find?

It is common, says Bacon, to desire the end without enduring the means. Every member of society
feels and acknowledges the necessity of detecting crimes, yet scarce any degree of virtue or
reputation is able to secure an informer from publick hatred. The learned world has always
admitted the usefulness of critical disquisitions, yet he that attempts to show, however modestly,
the failures of a celebrated writer, shall surely irritate his admirers, and incur the imputation
of envy, captiousness, and malignity.

With this danger full in my view, I shall proceed to examine the sentiments of Milton's tragedy,
which, though much less liable to censure than the disposition of his plan, are, like those
of other writers, sometimes exposed to just exceptions for want of care, or want of discernment.

Sentiments are proper and improper as they consist more or less with the character and circumstances
of the person to whom they are attributed, with the rules of the composition in which they
are found, or with the settled and unalterable nature of things.

It is common among the tragick poets to introduce their persons alluding to events or opinions,
of which they could not possibly have any knowledge. The barbarians of remote or newly discovered
regions often display their skill in European learning. The god of love is mentioned in Tamerlane
with all the familiarity of a Roman epigrammatist; and a late writer has put Harvey's doctrine
of the circulation of the blood into the mouth of a Turkish statesman, who lived near two centuries
before it was known even to philosophers or anatomists.

Milton's learning, which acquainted him with the manners of the ancient eastern nations, and
his invention, which required no assistance from the common cant of poetry, have preserved
him from frequent outrages of local or chronological propriety. Yet he has mentioned Chalybean
steel, of which it is not very likely that his chorus should have heard, and has made Alp the
general name of a mountain, in a region where the Alps could scarcely be known:

  No medicinal liquor can assuage,
  Nor breath of cooling air from snowy Alp.

He has taught Samson the tales of Circe, and the Syrens, at which he apparently hints in his
colloquy with Dalila:

   --I know thy trains,
  Though dearly to my cost, thy gins, and toils;
  Thy fair enchanted cup, and warbling charms
  No more on me have pow'r.

But the grossest errour of this kind is the solemn introduction of the Phoenix in the last
scene; which is faulty, not only as it is incongruous to the personage to whom it is ascribed,
but as it is so evidently contrary to reason and nature, that it ought never to be mentioned
but as a fable in any serious poem:

          --Virtue giv'n for lost,
  Deprest, and overthrown, as seem'd,
  Like that self-begotten bird
  In the Arabian woods embost,
  That no second knows nor third,
  And lay ere while a holocaust,
  From out her ashy womb now teem'd,
  Revives, reflourishes, then vigorous most
  When most unactive deem'd,
  And though her body die, her fame survives
  A secular bird, ages of lives.

Another species of impropriety is the unsuitableness of thoughts to the general character of
the poem. The seriousness and solemnity of tragedy necessarily reject all pointed or epigrammatical
expressions, all remote conceits and opposition of ideas. Samson's complaint is therefore too
elaborate to be natural:

  As in the land of darkness, yet in light,
  To live a life half dead, a living death,
  And bury'd; but, O yet more miserable!
  Myself, my sepulchre, a moving grave,
  Buried, yet not exempt,
  By privilege of death and burial,
  From worst of other evils, pains and wrongs.

All allusions to low and trivial objects, with which contempt is usually associated, are doubtless
unsuitable to a species of composition which ought to be always awful, though not always magnificent.
The remark therefore of the chorus on good or bad news seems to want elevation:

  Manoah. A little stay will bring some notice hither.
  Chor. Of good or bad so great, of bad the sooner;
  For evil news rides post, while good news baits.

But of all meanness that has least to plead which is produced by mere verbal conceits, which,
depending only upon sounds, lose their existence by the change of a syllable. Of this kind
is the following dialogue:

  Chor. But had we best retire? I see a storm.

  Sams. Fair days have oft contracted wind and rain.

  Chor. But this another kind of tempest brings.

  Sams. Be less abstruse, my riddling days are past.

  Chor. Look now for no enchanting voice, nor fear
  The bait of honied words; a rougher tongue
  Draws hitherward; I know him by his stride,
  The giant Harapha.--

And yet more despicable are the lines in which Manoah's paternal kindness is commended by the
chorus:

  Fathers are wont to lay up for their sons,
  Thou for thy son art bent to lay out all.

Samson's complaint of the inconveniencies of imprisonment is not wholly without verbal quaintness:

  --I, a prisoner chain'd, scarce freely draw
  The air, imprison'd also, close and damp.

From the sentiments we may properly descend to the consideration of the language, which, in
imitation of the ancients, is through the whole dialogue remarkably simple and unadorned, seldom
heightened by epithets, or varied by figures; yet sometimes metaphors find admission, even
where their consistency is not accurately preserved. Thus Samson confounds loquacity with a
shipwreck:

  How could I once look up, or heave the head,
  Who, like a foolish pilot, have shipwreck'd
  My vessel trusted to me from above,
  Gloriously rigg'd; and for a word, a tear,
  Fool! have divulg'd the secret gift of God
  To a deceitful woman?--

And the chorus talks of adding fuel to flame in a report:

  He's gone, and who knows how he may report
  Thy words, by adding fuel to the flame?

The versification is in the dialogue much more smooth and harmonious, than in the parts allotted
to the chorus, which are often so harsh and dissonant, as scarce to preserve, whether the lines
end with or without rhymes, any appearance of metrical regularity:

  Or do my eyes misrepresent? Can this be he,
  That heroic, that renown'd,
  Irresistible Samson? whom unarm'd
  No strength of man, or fiercest wild beast, could withstand;
  Who tore the lion, as the lion tears the kid.

Since I have thus pointed out the faults of Milton, critical integrity requires that I should
endeavour to display his excellencies, though they will not easily be discovered in short quotations,
because they consist in the justness of diffuse reasonings, or in the contexture and method
of continued dialogues; this play having none of those descriptions, similies, or splendid
sentences, with which other tragedies are so lavishly adorned.  Yet some passages may be selected
which seem to deserve particular notice, either as containing sentiments of passion, representations
of life, precepts of conduct, or sallies of imagination. It is not easy to give a stronger
representation of the weariness of despondency, than in the words of Samson to his father:

  --I feel my genial spirits droop,
  My hopes all flat, Nature within me seems
  In all her functions weary of herself,
  My race of glory run, and race of shame,
  And I shall shortly be with them that rest.

The reply of Samson to the flattering Dalila affords a just and striking description of the
stratagems and allurements of feminine hypocrisy:

  --These are thy wonted arts,
  And arts of every woman false like thee,
  To break all faith, all vows, deceive, betray,
  Then as repentant to submit, beseech,
  And reconcilement move with feign'd remorse,
  Confess and promise wonders in her change;
  Not truly penitent, but chief to try
  Her husband, how far urg'd his patience bears,
  His virtue or weakness which way to assail:
  Then with more cautious and instructed skill
  Again transgresses, and again submits.

When Samson has refused to make himself a spectacle at the feast of Dagon, he first justifies
his behaviour to the chorus, who charge him with having served the Philistines, by a very just
distinction: and then destroys the common excuse of cowardice and servility, which always confound
temptation with compulsion:

  Chor. Yet with thy strength thou serv'st the Philistines.

  Sams. Not in their idol worship, but by labour
  Honest and lawful to deserve my food
  Of those, who have me in their civil power.

  Chor. Where the heart joins not, outward acts defile not.

  Sams. Where outward force constrains, the sentence holds.
  But who constrains me to the temple of Dagon,
  Not dragging? The Philistine lords command.
  Commands are no constraints. If I obey them,
  I do it freely, venturing to displease
  God for the fear of Man, and Man prefer,
  Set God behind.

The complaint of blindness which Samson pours out at the beginning of the tragedy is equally
addressed to the passions and the fancy. The enumeration of his miseries is succeeded by a
very pleasing train of poetical images, and concluded by such expostulation and wishes, as
reason too often submits to learn from despair:

  O first created Beam, and thou great Word
  "Let there be light, and light was over all;"
  Why am I thus bereav'd thy prime decree?
  The sun to me is dark
  And silent as the moon,
  When she deserts the night
  Hid in her vacant interlunar cave.
  Since light so necessary is to life,
  And almost life itself, if it be true
  That light is in the soul,
  She all in every part; why was the sight
  To such a tender hall as the eye confin'd,
  So obvious and so easy to be quench'd?
  And not, as feeling, through all parts diffus'd,
  That she may look at will through every pore?

Such are the faults and such the beauties of Samson Agonistes, which I have shown with no other
purpose than to promote the knowledge of true criticism. The everlasting verdure of Milton's
laurels has nothing to fear from the blasts of malignity; nor can my attempt produce any other
effect, than to strengthen their shoots by lopping their luxuriance[g]. [Footnote g: This is
not the language of an accomplice in Lauder's imposition.--ED.]

No. 141. TUESDAY, JULY 23, 1751.

  Hilarisque, tamen cum pondere, virtus. STAT.

  Greatness with ease, and gay severity.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

Politicians have long observed, that the greatest events may be often traced back to slender
causes. Petty competition or casual friendship, the prudence of a slave, or the garrulity of
a woman, have hindered or promoted the most important schemes, and hastened or retarded the
revolutions of empire.

Whoever shall review his life will generally find, that the whole tenour of his conduct has
been determined by some accident of no apparent moment, or by a combination of inconsiderable
circumstances, acting when his imagination was unoccupied, and his judgment unsettled; and
that his principles and actions have taken their colour from some secret infusion, mingled
without design in the current of his ideas. The desires that predominate in our hearts, are
instilled by imperceptible communications at the time when we look upon the various scenes
of the world, and the different employments of men, with the neutrality of inexperience; and
we come forth from the nursery or the school, invariably destined to the pursuit of great acquisitions,
or petty accomplishments.

Such was the impulse by which I have been kept in motion from my earliest years. I was born
to an inheritance which gave my childhood a claim to distinction and caresses, and was accustomed
to hear applauses, before they had much influence on my thoughts. The first praise of which
I remember myself sensible was that of good-humour, which, whether I deserved it or not when
it was bestowed, I have since made it my whole business to propagate and maintain.

When I was sent to school, the gaiety of my look, and the liveliness of my loquacity, soon
gained me admission to hearts not yet fortified against affection by artifice or interest.
I was entrusted with every stratagem, and associated in every sport; my company gave alacrity
to a frolick, and gladness to a holiday. I was indeed so much employed in adjusting or executing
schemes of diversion, that I had no leisure for my tasks, but was furnished with exercises,
and instructed in my lessons, by some kind patron of the higher classes. My master, not suspecting
my deficiency, or unwilling to detect what his kindness would not punish nor his impartiality
excuse, allowed me to escape with a slight examination, laughed at the pertness of my ignorance,
and the sprightliness of my absurdities, and could not forbear to show that he regarded me
with such tenderness, as genius and learning can seldom excite.

From school I was dismissed to the university, where I soon drew upon me the notice of the
younger students, and was the constant partner of their morning walks, and evening compotations.
I was not indeed much celebrated for literature, but was looked on with indulgence as a man
of parts, who wanted nothing but the dulness of a scholar, and might become eminent whenever
he should condescend to labour and attention. My tutor a while reproached me with negligence,
and repressed my sallies with supercilious gravity; yet, having natural good-humour lurking
in his heart, he could not long hold out against the power of hilarity, but after a few months
began to relax the muscles of disciplinarian moroseness, received me with smiles after an elopement,
and, that he might not betray his trust to his fondness, was content to spare my diligence
by increasing his own.

Thus I continued to dissipate the gloom of collegiate austerity, to waste my own life in idleness,
and lure others from their studies, till the happy hour arrived, when I was sent to London.
I soon discovered the town to be the proper element of youth and gaiety, and was quickly distinguished
as a wit by the ladies, a species of beings only heard of at the university, whom I had no
sooner the happiness of approaching than I devoted all my faculties to the ambition of pleasing
them.

A wit, Mr. Rambler, in the dialect of ladies, is not always a man who, by the action of a vigorous
fancy upon comprehensive knowledge, brings distant ideas unexpectedly together, who, by some
peculiar acuteness, discovers resemblance in objects dissimilar to common eyes, or, by mixing
heterogeneous notions, dazzles the attention with sudden scintillations of conceit. A lady's
wit is a man who can make ladies laugh, to which, however easy it may seem, many gifts of nature,
and attainments of art, must commonly concur. He that hopes to be received as a wit in female
assemblies, should have a form neither so amiable as to strike with admiration, nor so coarse
as to raise disgust, with an understanding too feeble to be dreaded, and too forcible to be
despised. The other parts of the character are more subject to variation; it was formerly essential
to a wit, that half his back should be covered with a snowy fleece, and, at a time yet more
remote, no man was a wit without his boots. In the days of the Spectator a snuff-box seems
to have been indispensable; but in my time an embroidered coat was sufficient, without any
precise regulation of the rest of his dress.

But wigs and boots and snuff-boxes are vain, without a perpetual resolution to be merry, and
who can always find supplies of mirth? Juvenal indeed, in his comparison of the two opposite
philosophers, wonders only whence an unexhausted fountain of tears could be discharged: but
had Juvenal, with all his spirit, undertaken my province, he would have found constant gaiety
equally difficult to be supported. Consider, Mr. Rambler, and compassionate the condition of
a man, who has taught every company to expect from him a continual feast of laughter, an unintermitted
stream of jocularity. The task of every other slave has an end. The rower in time reaches the
port; the lexicographer at last finds the conclusion of his alphabet; only the hapless wit
has his labour always to begin, the call for novelty is never satisfied, and one jest only
raises expectation of another.

I know that among men of learning and asperity the retainers to the female world are not much
regarded: yet I cannot but hope that if you knew at how dear a rate our honours are purchased,
you would look with some gratulation on our success, and with some pity on our miscarriages.
Think on the misery of him who is condemned to cultivate barrenness and ransack vacuity; who
is obliged to continue his talk when his meaning is spent, to raise merriment without images,
to harass his imagination in quest of thoughts which he cannot start, and his memory in pursuit
of narratives which he cannot overtake; observe the effort with which he strains to conceal
despondency by a smile, and the distress in which he sits while the eyes of the company are
fixed upon him as the last refuge from silence and dejection.

It were endless to recount the shifts to which I have been reduced, or to enumerate the different
species of artificial wit. I regularly frequented coffee-houses, and have often lived a week
upon an expression, of which he who dropped it did not know the value. When fortune did not
favour my erratick industry, I gleaned jests at home from obsolete farces. To collect wit was
indeed safe, for I consorted with none that looked much into books, but to disperse it was
the difficulty. A seeming negligence was often useful, and I have very successfully made a
reply not to what the lady had said, but to what it was convenient for me to hear; for very
few were so perverse as to rectify a mistake which had given occasion to a burst of merriment.
Sometimes I drew the conversation up by degrees to a proper point, and produced a conceit which
I had treasured up, like sportsmen who boast of killing the foxes which they lodge in the covert.
Eminence is, however, in some happy moments, gained at less expense; I have delighted a whole
circle at one time with a series of quibbles, and made myself good company at another, by scalding
my fingers, or mistaking a lady's lap for my own chair.

These are artful deceits and useful expedients; but expedients are at length exhausted, and
deceits detected. Time itself, among other injuries, diminishes the power of pleasing, and
I now find, in my forty-fifth year, many pranks and pleasantries very coldly received, which
had formerly filled a whole room with jollity and acclamation. I am under the melancholy necessity
of supporting that character by study, which I gained by levity, having learned too late that
gaiety must be recommended by higher qualities, and that mirth can never please long but as
the efflorescence of a mind loved for its luxuriance, but esteemed for its usefulness.

I am, &c.

PAPILIUS.

No. 142. SATURDAY, JULY 27, 1751.

  [Greek: Entha d aner eniaue pelorios--
  --oude, met allous
  Poleit, all apaneuthen eon athemistia ede.
  Kai gar Oaum etetukto pelorion oude epskei
  Andri ge sitophagps.] HOMER. Od. [Greek: I'.] 187.

  A giant shepherd here his flock maintains
  Far from the rest, and solitary reigns,
  In shelter thick of horrid shade reclin'd;
  And gloomy mischiefs labour in the mind.
  A form enormous! far unlike the race
  Of human birth, in stature or in face. POPE.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

Having been accustomed to retire annually from the town, I lately accepted the invitation of
Eugenio, who has an estate and seat in a distant county. As we were unwilling to travel without
improvement, we turned often from the direct road to please ourselves with the view of nature
or of art; we examined every wild mountain and medicinal spring, criticised every edifice,
contemplated every ruin, and compared every scene of action with the narratives of historians.
By this succession of amusements we enjoyed the exercise of a journey without suffering the
fatigue, and had nothing to regret but that, by a progress so leisurely and gentle, we missed
the adventures of a post-chaise, and the pleasure of alarming villages with the tumult of our
passage, and of disguising our insignificancy by the dignity of hurry.

The first week after our arrival at Eugenio's house was passed in receiving visits from his
neighbours, who crowded about him with all the eagerness of benevolence; some impatient to
learn the news of the court and town, that they might be qualified by authentick information
to dictate to the rural politicians on the next bowling day; others desirous of his interest
to accommodate disputes, or his advice in the settlement of their fortunes and the marriage
of their children.

The civilities which he had received were soon to be returned; and I passed sometime with great
satisfaction in roving through the country, and viewing the seats, gardens, and plantations,
which are scattered over it. My pleasure would indeed have been greater had I been sometimes
allowed to wander in a park or wilderness alone; but to appear as a friend of Eugenio was an
honour not to be enjoyed without some inconveniencies: so much was every one solicitous for
my regard, that I could seldom escape to solitude, or steal a moment from the emulation of
complaisance, and the vigilance of officiousness.

In these rambles of good neighbourhood, we frequently passed by a house of unusual magnificence.
While I had my curiosity yet distracted among many novelties, it did not much attract my observation;
but in a short time I could not forbear surveying it with particular notice; for the length
of the wall which inclosed the gardens, the disposition of the shades that waved over it, and
the canals of which I could obtain some glimpses through the trees from our own windows, gave
me reason to expect more grandeur and beauty than I had yet seen in that province. I therefore
inquired, as we rode by it, why we never, amongst our excursions, spent an hour where there
was such an appearance of splendour and affluence? Eugenio told me that the seat which I so
much admired, was commonly called in the country the haunted house, and that no visits were
paid there by any of the gentlemen whom I had yet seen. As the haunts of incorporeal beings
are generally ruinous, neglected, and desolate, I easily conceived that there was something
to be explained, and told him that I supposed it only fairy ground, on which we might venture
by day-light without danger. The danger, says he, is indeed only that of appearing to solicit
the acquaintance of a man, with whom it is not possible to converse without infamy, and who
has driven from him, by his insolence or malignity, every human being who can live without him.

Our conversation was then accidentally interrupted; but my inquisitive humour being now in
motion, could not rest without a full account of this newly discovered prodigy. I was soon
informed that the fine house and spacious gardens were haunted by squire Bluster, of whom it
was very easy to learn the character, since nobody had regard for him sufficient to hinder
them from telling whatever they could discover.

Squire Bluster is descended of an ancient family. The estate which his ancestors had immemorially
possessed was much augmented by captain Bluster, who served under Drake in the reign of Elizabeth;
and the Blusters, who were before only petty gentlemen, have from that time frequently represented
the shire in parliament, been chosen to present addresses, and given laws at hunting-matches
and races. They were eminently hospitable and popular, till the father of this gentleman died
of an election. His lady went to the grave soon after him, and left the heir, then only ten
years old, to the care of his grandmother, who would not suffer him to be controlled, because
she could not bear to hear him cry; and never sent him to school, because she was not able
to live without his company. She taught him however very early to inspect the steward's accounts,
to dog the butler from the cellar, and to catch the servants at a junket; so that he was at
the age of eighteen a complete master of all the lower arts of domestick policy, had often
on the road detected combinations between the coachman and the ostler, and procured the discharge
of nineteen maids for illicit correspondence with cottagers and charwomen.

By the opportunities of parsimony which minority affords, and which the probity of his guardians
had diligently improved, a very large sum of money was accumulated, and he found himself, when
he took his affairs into his own hands, the richest man in the county. It has been long the
custom of this family to celebrate the heir's completion of his twenty-first year, by an entertainment,
at which the house is thrown open to all that are inclined to enter it, and the whole province
flocks together as to a general festivity. On this occasion young Bluster exhibited the first
tokens of his future eminence, by shaking his purse at an old gentleman who had been the intimate
friend of his father, and offering to wager a greater sum than he could afford to venture;
a practice with which he has, at one time or other, insulted every freeholder within ten miles
round him.

His next acts of offence were committed in a contentious and spiteful vindication of the privileges
of his manours, and a rigorous and relentless prosecution of every man that presumed to violate
his game. As he happens to have no estate adjoining equal to his own, his oppressions are often
borne without resistance, for fear of a long suit, of which he delights to count the expenses
without the least solicitude about the event; for he knows, that where nothing but an honorary
right is contested, the poorer antagonist must always suffer, whatever shall be the last decision
of the law.

By the success of some of these disputes, he has so elated his insolence, and, by reflection
upon the general hatred which they have brought upon him, so irritated his virulence, that
his whole life is spent in meditating or executing mischief. It is his common practice to procure
his hedges to be broken in the night, and then to demand satisfaction for damages which his
grounds have suffered from his neighbour's cattle. An old widow was yesterday soliciting Eugenio
to enable her to replevin her only cow, then in the pound by squire Bluster's order, who had
sent one of his agents to take advantage of her calamity, and persuade her to sell the cow
at an under rate. He has driven a day-labourer from his cottage, for gathering blackberries
in a hedge for his children, and has now an old woman in the county-gaol for a trespass which
she committed, by coming into his ground to pick up acorns for her hog.

Money, in whatever hands, will confer power. Distress will fly to immediate refuge, without
much consideration of remote consequences. Bluster has therefore a despotick authority in many
families, whom he has assisted, on pressing occasions, with larger sums than they can easily
repay. The only visits that he makes are to these houses of misfortune, where he enters with
the insolence of absolute command, enjoys the terrours of the family, exacts their obedience,
riots at their charge, and in the height of his joy insults the father with menaces, and the
daughters with obscenity.

He is of late somewhat less offensive; for one of his debtors, after gentle expostulations,
by which he was only irritated to grosser outrage, seized him by the sleeve, led him trembling
into the court-yard, and closed the door upon him in a stormy night. He took his usual revenge
next morning by a writ; but the debt was discharged by the assistance of Eugenio.

It is his rule to suffer his tenants to owe him rent, because by this indulgence he secures
to himself the power of seizure whenever he has an inclination to amuse himself with calamity,
and feast his ears with entreaties and lamentations. Yet as he is sometimes capriciously liberal
to those whom he happens to adopt as favourites, and lets his lands at a cheap rate, his farms
are never long unoccupied; and when one is ruined by oppression, the possibility of better
fortune quickly lures another to supply his place.

Such is the life of squire Bluster; a man in whose power fortune has liberally placed the means
of happiness, but who has defeated all her gifts of their end by the depravity of his mind.
He is wealthy without followers; he is magnificent without witnesses; he has birth without
alliance, and influence without dignity. His neighbours scorn him as a brute; his dependants
dread him as an oppressor; and he has only the gloomy comfort of reflecting, that if he is
hated, he is likewise feared.

I am, Sir, &c.

VAGULUS.

No. 143. TUESDAY, JULY 30, 1751.

  --Moveat cornicula risum
  Furtivis nudata coloribus.-- HOR. Lib. i. Ep. i. 19.

  Lest when the birds their various colours claim,
  Stripp'd of his stolen pride, the crow forlorn
  Should stand the laughter of the publick scorn. FRANCIS.

Among the innumerable practices by which interest or envy have taught those who live upon literary
fame to disturb each other at their airy banquets, one of the most common is the charge of
plagiarism. When the excellence of a new composition can no longer be contested, and malice
is compelled to give way to the unanimity of applause, there is yet this one expedient to be
tried, by which the author may be degraded, though his work be reverenced; and the excellence
which we cannot obscure, may be set at such a distance as not to overpower our fainter lustre.

This accusation is dangerous, because, even when it is false, it may be sometimes urged with
probability. Bruyere declares, that we are come into the world too late to produce any thing
new, that nature and life are preoccupied, and that description and sentiment have been long
exhausted. It is indeed certain, that whoever attempts any common topick, will find unexpected
coincidences of his thoughts with those of other writers; nor can the nicest judgment always
distinguish accidental similitude from artful imitation. There is likewise a common stock of
images, a settled mode of arrangement, and a beaten track of transition, which all authors
suppose themselves at liberty to use, and which produce the resemblance generally observable
among contemporaries. So that in books which best deserve the name of originals, there is little
new beyond the disposition of materials already provided; the same ideas and combinations of
ideas have been long in the possession of other hands; and, by restoring to every man his own,
as the Romans must have returned to their cots from the possession of the world, so the most
inventive and fertile genius would reduce his folios to a few pages. Yet the author who imitates
his predecessors only by furnishing himself with thoughts and elegancies out of the same general
magazine of literature, can with little more propriety be reproached as a plagiary, than the
architect can be censured as a mean copier of Angelo or Wren, because he digs his marble from
the same quarry, squares his stones by the same art, and unites them in the columns of the
same orders.

Many subjects fall under the consideration of an author, which, being limited by nature, can
admit only of slight and accidental diversities. All definitions of the same thing must be
nearly the same; and descriptions, which are definitions of a more lax and fanciful kind, must
always have in some degree that resemblance to each other which they all have to their object.
Different poets describing the spring or the sea would mention the zephyrs and the flowers,
the billows and the rocks; reflecting on human life, they would, without any communication
of opinions, lament the deceitfulness of hope, the fugacity of pleasure, the fragility of beauty,
and the frequency of calamity; and for palliatives of these incurable miseries, they would
concur in recommending kindness, temperance, caution, and fortitude.

When therefore there are found in Virgil and Horace two similar passages--

  Hæ tibi erunt artes--
  Parcere subjectis, et debellare superbos.    VIRG.

  To tame the proud, the fetter'd slave to free:
  These are imperial arts, and worthy thee.    DRYDEN.

  Imperet bellante prior, jacentem
  Lenis in hostem.    HOR.

  Let Cæsar spread his conquests far,
  Less pleas'd to triumph than to spare--

it is surely not necessary to suppose with a late critick, that one is copied from the other,
since neither Virgil nor Horace can be supposed ignorant of the common duties of humanity,
and the virtue of moderation in success.

Cicero and Ovid have on very different occasions remarked how little of the honour of a victory
belongs to the general, when his soldiers and his fortune have made their deductions; yet why
should Ovid be suspected to have owed to Tully an observation which perhaps occurs to every
man that sees or hears of military glories?

Tully observes of Achilles, that had not Homer written, his valour had been without praise:

  Nisi Ilias illa extitisset, idem tumulus qui corpus ejus contexerat,
  nomen ejus obruisset.

  Unless the Iliad had been published, his name had been lost in the
  tomb that covered his body.

Horace tells us with more energy that there were brave men before the wars of Troy, but they
were lost in oblivion for want of a poet:

  Vixere fortes ante Agamemnona
  Multi; sed omnes illachrymabiles
    Urgentur, ignotique longá
      Nocte, carent quia vate sacro.

  Before great Agamemnon reign'd,
    Reign'd kings as great as he, and brave,
  Whose huge ambition's now contain'd
    In the small compass of a grave:
  In endless night they sleep, unwept, unknown:
  No bard had they to make all time their own.    FRANCIS.

Tully inquires, in the same oration, why, but for fame, we disturb a short life with so many
fatigues?

  Quid est quod in hoc tam exiguo vitae curriculo et tam brevi, tantis
  nos in laboribus exerceamus?

  Why in so small a circuit of life should we employ ourselves in so
  many fatigues?

Horace inquires in the same manner,

  Quid brevi fortes jaculamur aevo
  Multa?

  Why do we aim, with eager strife,
  At things beyond the mark of life?      FRANCIS.

when our life is of so short duration, why we form such numerous designs? But Horace, as well
as Tully, might discover that records are needful to preserve the memory of actions, and that
no records were so durable as poems; either of them might find out that life is short, and
that we consume it in unnecessary labour.

There are other flowers of fiction so widely scattered and so easily cropped, that it is scarcely
just to tax the use of them as an act by which any particular writer is despoiled of his garland;
for they may be said to have been planted by the ancients in the open road of poetry for the
accommodation of their successors, and to be the right of every one that has art to pluck them
without injuring their colours or their fragrance. The passage of Orpheus to hell, with the
recovery and second loss of Eurydice, have been described after Boetius by Pope, in such a
manner as might justly leave him suspected of imitation, were not the images such as they might
both have derived from more ancient writers.

  Quae sontes agitant metu,
  Ultrices scelerum deæ
  Jam masta: lacrymis madent,
  Non Ixionium caput
  Velox præcipitat rota.

  The pow'rs of vengeance, while they hear,
  Touch'd with compassion, drop a tear:
  Ixion's rapid wheel is bound,
  Fix'd in attention to the sound.       F. LEWIS.

  Thy stone, O Sysiphus, stands still,
  Ixion rests upon the wheel,
    And the pale spectres dance!
  The furies sink upon their iron beds.     POPE

  Tandem, vincimur, arbiter
  Umbrarum, miserans, ait--
  Donemus, comitem viro,
  Emtam carmine, conjugem.

  Subdu'd at length, Hell's pitying monarch cry'd,
  The song rewarding, let us yield the bride.     F. LEWIS.

  He sung; and hell consented
    To hear the poet's prayer;
  Stern Proserpine relented,
    And gave him back the fair.      POPE

  Heu, noctis prope terminos
    Orpheus Eurydicen suam
    Vidit, perdidit, occidit.

  Nor yet the golden verge of day begun,
    When Orpheus, her unhappy lord,
    Eurydice to life restor'd,
  At once beheld, and lost, and was undone.   F. LEWIS.

  But soon, too soon, the lover turns his eyes:
  Again she falls, again she dies, she dies!    POPE.

No writer can be fully convicted of imitation, except there is a concurrence of more resemblance
than can be imagined to have happened by chance; as where the same ideas are conjoined without
any natural series or necessary coherence, or where not only the thought but the words are
copied. Thus it can scarcely be doubted, that in the first of the following passages Pope remembered
Ovid, and that in the second he copied Crashaw:

  Saepe pater dixit, studium quid inutile tentas?
    Maeonides nullas ipse reliquit opes--
  Sponte suâ carmen numeros veniebat ad aptos,
    Et quod conabar scribere, versus erat.      OVID.

  Quit, quit this barren trade, my father cry'd:
  Ev'n Homer left no riches when he dy'd--
  In verse spontaneous flow'd my native strain,
  Forc'd by no sweat or labour of the brain.    F. LEWIS.    POPE.

          --This plain floor,
  Believe me, reader, can say more
  Than many a braver marble can,
  Here lies a truly honest man.        CRASHAW.

  This modest stone, what few vain marbles can,
  May truly say, Here lies an honest man.     POPE.

Conceits, or thoughts not immediately impressed by sensible objects, or necessarily arising
from the coalition or comparison of common sentiments, may be with great justice suspected
whenever they are found a second time. Thus Wallar probably owed to Grotius an elegant compliment:

  Here lies the learned Savil's heir,
  So early wise, and lasting fair,
  That none, except her years they told,
  Thought her a child, or thought her old.          WALLER.

  Unica lux saecli, genitoris gloria, nemo
   Quem puerum, nemo credidit esse senem.      GROT.

  The age's miracle, his father's joy!
  Nor old you would pronounce him, nor a boy.       F. LEWIS.

And Prior was indebted for a pretty illustration to Alleyne's poetical history of Henry the
Seventh:

  For nought but light itself, itself can shew,
  And only kings can write, what kings can do.      ALLEYNE.

  Your musick's pow'r, your musick must disclose,
  For what light is, 'tis only light that shews.    PRIOR.

And with yet more certainty may the same writer be censured, for endeavouring the clandestine
appropriation of a thought which he borrowed, surely without thinking himself disgraced, from
an epigram of Plato:

  [Greek: Tae Paphiae to katoptron, epei toiae men orasthai
  Ouk ethelo, oiae d' aen paros, ou dunamai.]

  Venus, take my votive glass,
  Since I am not what I was;
  What from this day I shall be,
  Venus, let me never see.

As not every instance of similitude can be considered as a proof of imitation, so not every
imitation ought to be stigmatized as plagiarism. The adoption of a noble sentiment, or the
insertion of a borrowed ornament, may sometimes display so much judgment as will almost compensate
for invention: and an inferior genius may, without any imputation of servility, pursue the
path of the ancients, provided he declines to tread in their footsteps.

No. 144. SATURDAY, AUGUST 3, 1751.

  --Daphnidis arcum
  Fregisti et calamos: quae tu, perverse Menalea,
  Et quum vidisti puero donata, dolebas;
  Et si non aliqua nocuisses, mortuus esses. VIRG. EC. iii. 12.

  The bow of Daphnis and the shafts you broke;
  When the fair boy receiv'd the gift of right;
  And but for mischief, you had dy'd for spite. DRYDEN.

It is impossible to mingle in conversation without observing the difficulty with which a new
name makes its way into the world. The first appearance of excellence unites multitudes against
it; unexpected opposition rises up on every side; the celebrated and the obscure join in the
confederacy; subtlety furnishes arms to impudence, and invention leads on credulity.

The strength and unanimity of this alliance is not easily conceived. It might be expected that
no man should suffer his heart to be inflamed with malice, but by injuries; that none should
busy himself in contesting the pretensions of another, but when some right of his own was involved
in the question; that at least hostilities, commenced without cause, should quickly cease;
that the armies of malignity should soon disperse, when no common interest could be found to
hold them together; and that the attack upon a rising character should be left to those who
had something to hope or fear from the event.

The hazards of those that aspire to eminence, would be much diminished if they had none but
acknowledged rivals to encounter. Their enemies would then be few, and, what is yet of greater
importance, would be known. But what caution is sufficient to ward off the blows of invisible
assailants, or what force can stand against uninterrupted attacks, and a continual succession
of enemies? Yet such is the state of the world, that no sooner can any man emerge from the
crowd, and fix the eyes of the publick upon him, than he stands as a mark to the arrows of
lurking calumny, and receives in the tumult of hostility, from distant and from nameless hands,
wounds not always easy to be cured.

It is probable that the onset against the candidates for renown, is originally incited by those
who imagine themselves in danger of suffering by their success; but, when war is once declared,
volunteers flock to the standard, multitudes follow the camp only for want of employment, and
flying squadrons are dispersed to every part, so pleased with an opportunity of mischief, that
they toil without prospect of praise, and pillage without hope of profit.

When any man has endeavoured to deserve distinction, he will be surprised to hear himself censured
where he could not expect to have been named; he will find the utmost acrimony of malice among
those whom he never could have offended.

As there are to be found in the service of envy men of every diversity of temper and degree
of understanding, calumny is diffused by all arts and methods of propagation. Nothing is too
gross or too refined, too cruel or too trifling, to be practised; very little regard is had
to the rules of honourable hostility, but every weapon is accounted lawful, and those that
cannot make a thrust at life are content to keep themselves in play with petty malevolence,
to tease with feeble blows and impotent disturbance.

But as the industry of observation has divided the most miscellaneous and confused assemblages
into proper classes, and ranged the insects of the summer, that torment us with their drones
or stings, by their several tribes; the persecutors of merit, notwithstanding their numbers,
may be likewise commodiously distinguished into Roarers, Whisperers, and Moderators.

The Roarer is an enemy rather terrible than dangerous. He has no other qualification for a
champion of controversy than a hardened front and strong voice. Having seldom so much desire
to confute as to silence, he depends rather upon vociferation than argument, and has very little
care to adjust one part of his accusation to another, to preserve decency in his language,
or probability in his narratives.

He has always a store of reproachful epithets and contemptuous appellations, ready to be produced
as occasion may require, which by constant use he pours out with resistless volubility. If
the wealth of a trader is mentioned, he without hesitation devotes him to bankruptcy; if the
beauty and elegance of a lady be commended, he wonders how the town can fall in love with rustick
deformity; if a new performance of genius happens to be celebrated, he pronounces the writer
a hopeless idiot, without knowledge of books or life, and without the understanding by which
it must be acquired. His exaggerations are generally without effect upon those whom he compels
to hear them; and though it will sometimes happen that the timorous are awed by his violence,
and the credulous mistake his confidence for knowledge, yet the opinions which he endeavours
to suppress soon recover their former strength, as the trees that bend to the tempest erect
themselves again when its force is past.

The Whisperer is more dangerous. He easily gains attention by a soft address, and excites curiosity
by an air of importance. As secrets are not to be made cheap by promiscuous publication, he
calls a select audience about him, and gratifies their vanity with an appearance of trust by
communicating his intelligence in a low voice. Of the trader he can tell that, though he seems
to manage an extensive commerce, and talks in high terms of the funds, yet his wealth is not
equal to his reputation; he has lately suffered much by an expensive project, and had a greater
share than is acknowledged in the rich ship that perished by the storm. Of the beauty he has
little to say, but that they who see her in a morning do not discover all those graces which
are admired in the Park. Of the writer he affirms with great certainty, that though the excellence
of the work be incontestible, he can claim but a small part of the reputation; that he owed
most of the images and sentiments to a secret friend; and that the accuracy and equality of
the style was produced by the successive correction of the chief criticks of the age.

As every one is pleased with imagining that he knows something not yet commonly divulged, secret
history easily gains credit; but it is for the most part believed only while it circulates
in whispers; and when once it is openly told, is openly confuted.

The most pernicious enemy is the man of Moderation. Without interest in the question, or any
motive but honest curiosity, this impartial and zealous inquirer after truth is ready to hear
either side, and always disposed to kind interpretations and favourable opinions. He hath heard
the trader's affairs reported with great variation, and, after a diligent comparison of the
evidence, concludes it probable that the splendid superstructure of business being originally
built upon a narrow basis, has lately been found to totter; but between dilatory payment and
bankruptcy there is a great distance; many merchants have supported themselves by expedients
for a time, without any final injury to their creditors; and what is lost by one adventure
may be recovered by another. He believes that a young lady pleased with admiration, and desirous
to make perfect what is already excellent, may heighten her charms by artificial improvements,
but surely most of her beauties must be genuine, and who can say that he is wholly what he
endeavours to appear? The author he knows to be a man of diligence, who perhaps does not sparkle
with the fire of Homer, but has the judgment to discover his own deficiencies, and to supply
them by the help of others; and, in his opinion, modesty is a quality so amiable and rare,
that it ought to find a patron wherever it appears, and may justly be preferred by the publick
suffrage to petulant wit and ostentatious literature.

He who thus discovers failings with unwillingness, and extenuates the faults which cannot be
denied, puts an end at once to doubt or vindication; his hearers repose upon his candour and
veracity, and admit the charge without allowing the excuse.

Such are the arts by which the envious, the idle, the peevish, and the thoughtless, obstruct
that worth which they cannot equal, and, by artifices thus easy, sordid, and detestable, is
industry defeated, beauty blasted, and genius depressed.

No. 145. TUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 1751.

  Non, si priores Maeonius tenet
  Sedes Homerus, Pindaricae latent,
    Ceaeque, et Alcaei minaces,
      Stesichorique graves Camoenae. HOR. Lib. iv. Od. ix. 5.

  What though the muse her Homer thrones
    High above all the immortal quire;
  Nor Pindar's raptures she disowns,
    Nor hides the plaintive Caean lyre;
  Alcaeus strikes the tyrant soul with dread,
  Nor yet is grave Stesichorus unread. FRANCIS.

It is allowed that vocations and employments of least dignity are of the most apparent use;
that the meanest artizan or manufacturer contributes more to the accommodation of life, than
the profound scholar and argumentative theorist; and that the publick would suffer less present
inconvenience from the banishment of philosophers than from the extinction of any common trade.

Some have been so forcibly struck with this observation, that they have, in the first warmth
of their discovery, thought it reasonable to alter the common distribution of dignity, and
ventured to condemn mankind of universal ingratitude. For justice exacts, that those by whom
we are most benefited should be most honoured. And what labour can be more useful than that
which procures to families and communities those necessaries which supply the wants of nature,
or those conveniencies by which ease, security, and elegance, are conferred?

This is one of the innumerable theories which the first attempt to reduce them into practice
certainly destroys. If we estimate dignity by immediate usefulness, agriculture is undoubtedly
the first and noblest science; yet we see the plough driven, the clod broken, the manure spread,
the seeds scattered, and the harvest reaped, by men whom those that feed upon their industry
will never be persuaded to admit into the same rank with heroes, or with sages; and who, after
all the confessions which truth may extort in favour of their occupation, must be content to
fill up the lowest class of the commonwealth, to form the base of the pyramid of subordination,
and lie buried in obscurity themselves, while they support all that is splendid, conspicuous,
or exalted.

It will be found upon a closer inspection, that this part of the conduct of mankind is by no
means contrary to reason or equity. Remuneratory honours are proportioned at once to the usefulness
and difficulty of performances, and are properly adjusted by comparison of the mental and corporeal
abilities, which they appear to employ. That work, however necessary, which is carried on only
by muscular strength and manual dexterity, is not of equal esteem, in the consideration of
rational beings, with the tasks that exercise the intellectual powers, and require the active
vigour of imagination or the gradual and laborious investigations of reason.

The merit of all manual occupations seems to terminate in the inventor; and surely the first
ages cannot be charged with ingratitude; since those who civilized barbarians, and taught them
how to secure themselves from cold and hunger, were numbered amongst their deities. But these
arts once discovered by philosophy, and facilitated by experience, are afterwards practised
with very little assistance from the faculties of the soul; nor is any thing necessary to the
regular discharge of these inferior duties, beyond that rude observation which the most sluggish
intellect may practise, and that industry which the stimulations of necessity naturally enforce.

Yet though the refusal of statues and panegyrick to those who employ only their hands and feet
in the service of mankind may be easily justified, I am far from intending to incite the petulance
of pride, to justify the superciliousness of grandeur, or to intercept any part of that tenderness
and benevolence which, by the privilege of their common nature, one may claim from another.

That it would be neither wise nor equitable to discourage the husbandman, the labourer, the
miner, or the smith, is generally granted; but there is another race of beings equally obscure
and equally indigent, who, because their usefulness is less obvious to vulgar apprehensions,
live unrewarded and die unpitied, and who have been long exposed to insult without a defender,
and to censure without an apologist.

The authors of London were formerly computed by Swift at several thousands, and there is not
any reason for suspecting that their number has decreased. Of these only a very few can be
said to produce, or endeavour to produce, new ideas, to extend any principle of science, or
gratify the imagination with any uncommon train of images or contexture of events; the rest,
however laborious, however arrogant, can only be considered as the drudges of the pen, the
manufacturers of literature, who have set up for authors, either with or without a regular
initiation, and, like other artificers, have no other care than to deliver their tale of wares
at the stated time.

It has been formerly imagined, that he who intends the entertainment or instruction of others,
must feel in himself some peculiar impulse of genius; that he must watch the happy minute in
which his natural fire is excited, in which his mind is elevated with nobler sentiments, enlightened
with clearer views, and invigorated with stronger comprehension; that he must carefully select
his thoughts and polish his expressions; and animate his efforts with the hope of raising a
monument of learning, which neither time nor envy shall be able to destroy.

But the authors whom I am now endeavouring to recommend have been too long hackneyed in the
ways of men to indulge the chimerical ambition of immortality; they have seldom any claim to
the trade of writing, but that they have tried some other without success; they perceive no
particular summons to composition, except the sound of the clock; they have no other rule than
the law or the fashion for admitting their thoughts or rejecting them; and about the opinion
of posterity they have little solicitude, for their productions are seldom intended to remain
in the world longer than a week.

That such authors are not to be rewarded with praise is evident, since nothing can be admired
when it ceases to exist; but surely, though they cannot aspire to honour, they may be exempted
from ignominy, and adopted in that order of men which deserves our kindness, though not our
reverence. These papers of the day, the Ephemerae of learning, have uses more adequate to the
purposes of common life than more pompous and durable volumes. If it is necessary for every
man to be more acquainted with his contemporaries than with past generations, and to rather
know the events which may immediately affect his fortune or quiet, than the revolutions of
ancient kingdoms, in which he has neither possessions nor expectations; if it be pleasing to
hear of the preferment and dismission of statesmen, the birth of heirs, and the marriage of
beauties, the humble author of journals and gazettes must be considered as a liberal dispenser
of beneficial knowledge.

Even the abridger, compiler, and translator, though their labours cannot be ranked with those
of the diurnal historiographer, yet must not be rashly doomed to annihilation. Every size of
readers requires a genius of correspondent capacity; some delight in abstracts and epitomes,
because they want room in their memory for long details, and content themselves with effects,
without inquiry after causes; some minds are overpowered by splendour of sentiment, as some
eyes are offended by a glaring light; such will gladly contemplate an author in an humble imitation,
as we look without pain upon the sun in the water.

As every writer has his use, every writer ought to have his patrons; and since no man, however
high he may now stand, can be certain that he shall not be soon thrown down from his elevation
by criticism or caprice, the common interest of learning requires that her sons should cease
from intestine hostilities, and, instead of sacrificing each other to malice and contempt,
endeavour to avert persecution from the meanest of their fraternity.

No. 146. SATURDAY, AUGUST 10, 1751.

  Sunt illic duo, tresve, qui revolvant
  Nostrarum tineas ineptiarum;
  Sed cum sponsio, fabultaeque lassae
  De scarpo fuerint incitato. MART.

  'Tis possible that one or two
  These fooleries of mine may view;
  But then the bettings must be o'er,
  Nor Crab or Childers talk'd of more. F. LEWIS.

None of the projects or designs which exercise the mind of man are equally subject to obstructions
and disappointments with the pursuit of fame. Riches cannot easily be denied to them who have
something of greater value to offer in exchange; he whose fortune is endangered by litigation,
will not refuse to augment the wealth of the lawyer; he whose days are darkened by langour,
or whose nerves are excruciated by pain, is compelled to pay tribute to the science of healing.
But praise may be always omitted without inconvenience. When once a man has made celebrity
necessary to his happiness, he has put it in the power of the weakest and most timorous malignity,
if not to take away his satisfaction, at least to withhold it. His enemies may indulge their
pride by airy negligence, and gratify their malice by quiet neutrality. They that could never
have injured a character by invectives, may combine to annihilate it by silence; as the women
of Rome threatened to put an end to conquest and dominion, by supplying no children to the
commonwealth.

When a writer has with long toil produced a work intended to burst upon mankind with unexpected
lustre, and withdraw the attention of the learned world from every other controversy or inquiry,
he is seldom contented to wait long without the enjoyment of his new praises. With an imagination
full of his own importance, he walks out like a monarch in disguise to learn the various opinions
of his readers. Prepared to feast upon admiration; composed to encounter censures without emotion;
and determined not to suffer his quiet to be injured by a sensibility too exquisite of praise
or blame, but to laugh with equal contempt at vain objections and injudicious commendations,
he enters the places of mingled conversation, sits down to his tea in an obscure corner, and,
while he appears to examine a file of antiquated journals, catches the conversation of the
whole room. He listens, but hears no mention of his book, and therefore supposes that he has
disappointed his curiosity by delay; and that as men of learning would naturally begin their
conversation with such a wonderful novelty, they had digressed to other subjects before his
arrival. The company disperses, and their places are supplied by others equally ignorant, or
equally careless. The same expectation hurries him to another place, from which the same disappointment
drives him soon away. His impatience then grows violent and tumultuous; he ranges over the
town with restless curiosity, and hears in one quarter of a cricket-match, in another of a
pick-pocket; is told by some of an unexpected bankruptcy; by others of a turtle feast; is sometimes
provoked by importunate inquiries after the white bear, and sometimes with praises of the dancing
dog; he is afterwards entreated to give his judgment upon a wager about the height of the Monument;
invited to see a foot-race in the adjacent villages; desired to read a ludicrous advertisement;
or consulted about the most effectual method of making inquiry after a favourite cat. The whole
world is busied in affairs which he thinks below the notice of reasonable creatures, and which
are nevertheless sufficient to withdraw all regard from his labours and his merits.

He resolves at last to violate his own modesty, and to recall the talkers from their folly
by an inquiry after himself. He finds every one provided with an answer; one has seen the work
advertised, but never met with any that had read it; another has been so often imposed upon
by specious titles, that he never buys a book till its character is established; a third wonders
what any man can hope to produce after so many writers of greater eminence; the next has inquired
after the author, but can hear no account of him, and therefore suspects the name to be fictitious;
and another knows him to be a man condemned by indigence to write too frequently what he does
not understand.

Many are the consolations with which the unhappy author endeavours to allay his vexation, and
fortify his patience. He has written with too little indulgence to the understanding of common
readers; he has fallen upon an age in which solid knowledge, and delicate refinement, have
given way to a low merriment, and idle buffoonery, and therefore no writer can hope for distinction,
who has any higher purpose than to raise laughter. He finds that his enemies, such as superiority
will always raise, have been industrious, while his performance was in the press, to vilify
and blast it; and that the bookseller, whom he had resolved to enrich, has rivals that obstruct
the circulation of the copies. He at last reposes upon the consideration, that the noblest
works of learning and genius have always made their way slowly against ignorance and prejudice;
and that reputation, which is never to be lost, must be gradually obtained, as animals of longest
life are observed not soon to attain their full stature and strength.

By such arts of voluntary delusion does every man endeavour to conceal his own unimportance
from himself. It is long before we are convinced of the small proportion which every individual
bears to the collective body of mankind; or learn how few can be interested in the fortune
of any single man; how little vacancy is left in the world for any new object of attention;
to how small extent the brightest blaze of merit can be spread amidst the mists of business
and of folly; and how soon it is clouded by the intervention of other novelties. Not only the
writer of books, but the commander of armies, and the deliverer of nations, will easily outlive
all noisy and popular reputation; he may be celebrated for a time by the publick voice, but
his actions and his name will soon be considered as remote and unaffecting, and be rarely mentioned
but by those whose alliance gives them some vanity to gratify by frequent commemoration.

It seems not to be sufficiently considered how little renown can be admitted in the world.
Mankind are kept perpetually busy by their fears or desires, and have not more leisure from
their own affairs, than to acquaint themselves with the accidents of the current day. Engaged
in contriving some refuge from calamity, or in shortening the way to some new possession, they
seldom suffer their thoughts to wander to the past or future; none but a few solitary students
have leisure to inquire into the claims of ancient heroes or sages; and names which hoped to
range over kingdoms and continents, shrink at last into cloisters or colleges.

Nor is it certain, that even of these dark and narrow habitations, these last retreats of fame,
the possession will be long kept. Of men devoted to literature, very few extend their views
beyond some particular science, and the greater part seldom inquire, even in their own profession,
for any authors but those whom the present mode of study happens to force upon their notice;
they desire not to fill their minds with unfashionable knowledge, but contentedly resign to
oblivion those books which they now find censured or neglected.

The hope of fame is necessarily connected with such considerations as must abate the ardour
of confidence, and repress the vigour of pursuit. Whoever claims renown from any kind of excellence,
expects to fill the place which is now possessed by another; for there are already names of
every class sufficient to employ all that will desire to remember them; and surely he that
is pushing his predecessors into the gulph of obscurity, cannot but sometimes suspect, that
he must himself sink in like manner, and, as he stands upon the same precipice, be swept away
with the same violence.

It sometimes happens, that fame begins when life is at an end; but far the greater number of
candidates for applause have owed their reception in the world to some favourable casualties,
and have therefore immediately sunk into neglect, when death stripped them of their casual
influence, and neither fortune nor patronage operated in their favour. Among those who have
better claims to regard, the honour paid to their memory is commonly proportionate to the reputation
which they enjoyed in their lives, though still growing fainter, as it is at a greater distance
from the first emission; and since it is so difficult to obtain the notice of contemporaries,
how little is to be hoped from future times? What can merit effect by its own force, when the
help of art or friendship can scarcely support it?

No. 147. TUESDAY, AUGUST 13, 1751.

  Tu nihil invitâ dices faciesve Minervâ. Hon. Ar. Poet. 385.

  --You are of too quick a sight,
  Not to discern which way your talent lies. ROSCOMMON.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

As little things grow great by continual accumulation, I hope you will not think the dignity
of your character impaired by an account of a ludicrous persecution, which, though it produced
no scenes of horrour or of ruin, yet, by incessant importunity of vexation, wears away my happiness,
and consumes those years which nature seems particularly to have assigned to cheerfulness,
in silent anxiety and helpless resentment.

I am the eldest son of a gentleman, who having inherited a large estate from his ancestors,
and feeling no desire either to increase or lessen it, has from the time of his marriage generally
resided at his own seat; where, by dividing his time among the duties of a father, a master,
and a magistrate, the study of literature, and the offices of civility, he finds means to rid
himself of the day, without any of those amusements, which all those with whom my residence
in this place has made me acquainted, think necessary to lighten the burthen of existence.

When my age made me capable of instruction, my father prevailed upon a gentleman, long known
at Oxford for the extent of his learning and the purity of his manners, to undertake my education.
The regard with which I saw him treated, disposed me to consider his instructions as important,
and I therefore soon formed a habit of attention, by which I made very quick advances in different
kinds of learning, and heard, perhaps too often, very flattering comparisons of my own proficiency
with that of others, either less docile by nature, or less happily forwarded by instruction.
I was caressed by all that exchanged visits with my father; and as young men are with little
difficulty taught to judge favourably of themselves, began to think that close application
was no longer necessary, and that the time was now come when I was at liberty to read only
for amusement, and was to receive the reward of my fatigues in praise and admiration.

While I was thus banqueting upon my own perfections, and longing in secret to escape from tutorage,
my father's brother came from London to pass a summer at his native place. A lucrative employment
which he possessed, and a fondness for the conversation and diversions of the gay part of mankind,
had so long kept him from rural excursions, that I had never seen him since my infancy. My
curiosity was therefore strongly excited by the hope of observing a character more nearly,
which I had hitherto reverenced only at a distance.

From all private and intimate conversation, I was long withheld by the perpetual confluence
of visitants with whom the first news of my uncle's arrival crowded the house; but was amply
recompensed by seeing an exact and punctilious practice of the arts of a courtier, in all the
stratagems of endearment, the gradations of respect, and variations of courtesy. I remarked
with what justice of distribution he divided his talk to a wide circle; with what address he
offered to every man an occasion of indulging some favourite topick, or displaying some particular
attainment; the judgment with which he regulated his inquiries after the absent; and the care
with which he shewed all the companions of his early years how strongly they were infixed in
his memory, by the mention of past incidents and the recital of puerile kindnesses, dangers,
and frolicks. I soon discovered that he possessed some science of graciousness and attraction
which books had not taught, and of which neither I nor my father had any knowledge; that he
had the power of obliging those whom he did not benefit; that he diffused, upon his cursory
behaviour and most trifling actions, a gloss of softness and delicacy by which every one was
dazzled; and that, by some occult method of captivation, he animated the timorous, softened
the supercilious, and opened the reserved. I could not but repine at the inelegance of my own
manners, which left me no hopes but not to offend, and at the inefficacy of rustick benevolence,
which gained no friends but by real service.

My uncle saw the veneration with which I caught every accent of his voice, and watched every
motion of his hand; and the awkward diligence with which I endeavoured to imitate his embrace
of fondness, and his bow of respect. He was, like others, easily flattered by an imitator by
whom he could not fear ever to be rivalled, and repaid my assiduities with compliments and
professions. Our fondness was so increased by a mutual endeavour to please each other, that
when he returned to London, he declared himself unable to leave a nephew so amiable and so
accomplished behind him; and obtained my father's permission to enjoy my company for a few
months, by a promise to initiate me in the arts of politeness, and introduce me into publick life.

The courtier had little inclination to fatigue, and therefore, by travelling very slowly, afforded
me time for more loose and familiar conversation; but I soon found, that by a few inquiries
which he was not well prepared to satisfy, I had made him weary of his young companion. His
element was a mixed assembly, where ceremony and healths, compliments and common topicks, kept
the tongue employed with very little assistance from memory or reflection; but in the chariot,
where he was necessitated to support a regular tenour of conversation, without any relief from
a new comer, or any power of starting into gay digressions, or destroying argument by a jest,
he soon discovered that poverty of ideas which had been hitherto concealed under the tinsel
of politeness. The first day he entertained me with the novelties and wonders with which I
should be astonished at my entrance into London, and cautioned me with apparent admiration
of his own wisdom against the arts by which rusticity is frequently deluded. The same detail
and the same advice he would have repeated on the second day; but as I every moment diverted
the discourse to the history of the towns by which we passed, or some other subject of learning
or of reason, he soon lost his vivacity, grew peevish and silent, wrapped his cloak about him,
composed himself to slumber, and reserved his gaiety for fitter auditors.

At length I entered London, and my uncle was reinstated in his superiority. He awaked at once
to loquacity as soon as our wheels rattled on the pavement, and told me the name of every street
as we crossed it, and owner of every house as we passed by. He presented me to my aunt, a lady
of great eminence for the number of her acquaintances, and splendour of her assemblies, and
either in kindness or revenge consulted with her, in my presence, how I might be most advantageously
dressed for my first appearance, and most expeditiously disencumbered from my villatick bashfulness.
My indignation at familiarity thus contemptuous flushed in my face; they mistook anger for
shame, and alternately exerted their eloquence upon the benefits of publick education, and
the happiness of an assurance early acquired.

Assurance is, indeed, the only qualification to which they seem to have annexed merit, and
assurance, therefore, is perpetually recommended to me as the supply of every defect, and the
ornament of every excellence. I never sit silent in company when secret history is circulating,
but I am reproached for want of assurance. If I fail to return the stated answer to a compliment;
if I am disconcerted by unexpected raillery; if I blush when I am discovered gazing on a beauty,
or hesitate when I find myself embarrassed in an argument; if I am unwilling to talk of what
I do not understand, or timorous in undertaking offices which I cannot gracefully perform;
if I suffer a more lively tatler to recount the casualties of a game, or a nimbler fop to pick
up a fan, I am censured between pity and contempt, as a wretch doomed to grovel in obscurity
for want of assurance.

I have found many young persons harassed in the same manner, by those to whom age has given
nothing but the assurance which they recommend; and therefore cannot but think it useful to
inform them, that cowardice and delicacy are not to be confounded; and that he whose stupidity
has armed him against the shafts of ridicule, will always act and speak with greater audacity,
than they whose sensibility represses their ardour, and who dare never let their confidence
outgrow their abilities.

No. 148. SATURDAY, AUGUST 17, 1751.

  Me pater saevis oneret catenis,
  Quod viro clemens misero peperci:
  Me vel extremis Numidarum in agros
         Classe releget. HOR. Lib. iii. Od. xi. 45.

    Me let my father load with chains,
  Or banish to Numidia's farthest plains!
    My crime, that I, a loyal wife,
  In kind compassion sav'd my husband's life. FRANCIS.

Politicians remark, that no oppression is so heavy or lasting as that which is inflicted by
the perversion and exorbitance of legal authority. The robber may be seized, and the invader
repelled, whenever they are found; they who pretend no right but that of force, may by force
be punished or suppressed. But when plunder bears the name of impost, and murder is perpetrated
by a judicial sentence, fortitude is intimidated, and wisdom confounded: resistance shrinks
from an alliance with rebellion, and the villain remains secure in the robes of the magistrate.

Equally dangerous and equally detestable are the cruelties often exercised in private families,
under the venerable sanction of parental authority; the power which we are taught to honour
from the first moments of reason; which is guarded from insult and violation by all that can
impress awe upon the mind of man; and which therefore may wanton in cruelty without control,
and trample the bounds of right with innumerable transgressions, before duty and piety will
dare to seek redress, or think themselves at liberty to recur to any other means of deliverance
than supplications by which insolence is elated, and tears by which cruelty is gratified.

It was for a long time imagined by the Romans, that no son could be the murderer of his father;
and they had therefore no punishment appropriated to parricide. They seem likewise to have
believed with equal confidence, that no father could be cruel to his child; and therefore they
allowed every man the supreme judicature in his own house, and put the lives of his offspring
into his hands. But experience informed them by degrees, that they determined too hastily in
favour of human nature; they found that instinct and habit were not able to contend with avarice
or malice; that the nearest relation might be violated; and that power, to whomsoever intrusted,
might be ill employed. They were therefore obliged to supply and to change their institutions;
to deter the parricide by a new law, and to transfer capital punishments from the parent to
the magistrate.

There are indeed many houses which it is impossible to enter familiarly, without discovering
that parents are by no means exempt from the intoxications of dominion; and that he who is
in no danger of hearing remonstrances but from his own conscience, will seldom be long without
the art of controling his convictions, and modifying justice by his own will.

If in any situation the heart were inaccessible to malignity, it might be supposed to be sufficiently
secured by parental relation. To have voluntarily become to any being the occasion of its existence,
produces an obligation to make that existence happy. To see helpless infancy stretching out
her hands, and pouring out her cries in testimony of dependence, without any powers to alarm
jealousy, or any guilt to alienate affection, must surely awaken tenderness in every human
mind; and tenderness once excited will be hourly increased by the natural contagion of felicity,
by the repercussion of communicated pleasure, by the consciousness of the dignity of benefaction.
I believe no generous or benevolent man can see the vilest animal courting his regard, and
shrinking at his anger, playing his gambols of delight before him, calling on him in distress,
and flying to him in danger, without more kindness than he can persuade himself to feel for
the wild and unsocial inhabitants of the air and water. We naturally endear to ourselves those
to whom we impart any kind of pleasure, because we imagine their affection and esteem secured
to us by the benefits which they receive.

There is, indeed, another method by which the pride of superiority may be likewise gratified.
He that has extinguished all the sensations of humanity, and has no longer any satisfaction
in the reflection that he is loved as the distributor of happiness, may please himself with
exciting terrour as the inflictor of pain: he may delight his solitude with contemplating the
extent of his power and the force of his commands; in imagining the desires that flutter on
the tongue which is forbidden to utter them, or the discontent which preys on the heart in
which fear confines it: he may amuse himself with new contrivances of detection, multiplications
of prohibition, and varieties of punishment; and swell with exultation when he considers how
little of the homage that he receives he owes to choice.

That princes of this character have been known, the history of all absolute kingdoms will inform
us; and since, as Aristotle observes, [Greek: hae oikonomikae monarchia], the government of
a family is naturally monarchical, it is, like other monarchies, too often arbitrarily administered.
The regal and parental tyrant differ only in the extent of their dominions, and the number
of their slaves. The same passions cause the same miseries; except that seldom any prince,
however despotick, has so far shaken off all awe of the publick eye, as to venture upon those
freaks of injustice, which are sometimes indulged under the secrecy of a private dwelling.
Capricious injunctions, partial decisions, unequal allotments, distributions of reward, not
by merit, but by fancy, and punishments, regulated not by the degree of the offence, but by
the humour of the judge, are too frequent where no power is known but that of a father.

That he delights in the misery of others, no man will confess, and yet what other motive can
make a father cruel? The king may be instigated by one man to the destruction of another; he
may sometimes think himself endangered by the virtues of a subject; he may dread the successful
general or the popular orator; his avarice may point out golden confiscations; and his guilt
may whisper that he can only be secure by cutting off all power of revenge.

But what can a parent hope from the oppression of those who were born to his protection, of
those who can disturb him with no competition, who can enrich him with no spoils? Why cowards
are cruel may be easily discovered; but for what reason, not more infamous than cowardice,
can that man delight in oppression who has nothing to fear?

The unjustifiable severity of a parent is loaded with this aggravation, that those whom he
injures are always in his sight. The injustice of a prince is often exercised upon those of
whom he never had any personal or particular knowledge; and the sentence which he pronounces,
whether of banishment, imprisonment, or death, removes from his view the man whom he condemns.
But the domestick oppressor dooms himself to gaze upon those faces which he clouds with terrour
and with sorrow; and beholds every moment the effects of his own barbarities. He that can bear
to give continual pain to those who surround him, and can walk with satisfaction in the gloom
of his own presence; he that can see submissive misery without relenting, and meet without
emotion the eye that implores mercy, or demands justice, will scarcely be amended by remonstrance
or admonition; he has found means of stopping the avenues of tenderness, and arming his heart
against the force of reason.

Even though no consideration should be paid to the great law of social beings, by which every
individual is commanded to consult the happiness of others, yet the harsh parent is less to
be vindicated than any other criminal, because he less provides for the happiness of himself.
Every man, however little he loves others, would willingly be loved; every man hopes to live
long, and therefore hopes for that time at which he shall sink back to imbecility, and must
depend for ease and cheerfulness upon the officiousness of others. But how has he obviated
the inconveniencies of old age, who alienates from him the assistance of his children, and
whose bed must be surrounded in the last hours, in the hours of languor and dejection, of impatience
and of pain, by strangers to whom his life is indifferent, or by enemies to whom his death
is desirable?

Piety will, indeed, in good minds overcome provocation, and those who have been harassed by
brutality will forget the injuries which they have suffered, so far as to perform the last
duties with alacrity and zeal. But surely no resentment can be equally painful with kindness
thus undeserved, nor can severer punishment be imprecated upon a man not wholly lost in meanness
and stupidity, than, through the tediousness of decrepitude, to be reproached by the kindness
of his own children, to receive not the tribute but the alms of attendance, and to owe every
relief of his miseries, not to gratitude but to mercy.

No. 149. TUESDAY, AUGUST 20, 1751.

  Quod non sit Pylades hoc tempore, non sit Orestes,
    Miraris? Pylades, Marce, bibebat idem.
  Nec melior panis, turdusve dabatur Oresti:
    Sed par, atque eadem coena duobus erat.--
  Te Cadmea Tyrus, me pinguis Gallia vestit:
    Vis te purpureum, Marce, sagatus amem?
  Ut praestem Pyladen, aliquis mihi praestet Orestem.
    Hoc non fit verbis, Marce: ut ameris, ama. MART. Lib. vi. Ep. xi.

  You wonder now that no man sees
  Such friends as those of ancient Greece.
  Here lay the point--Orestes' meat
  Was just the same his friend did eat;
  Nor can it yet be found, his wine
  Was better, Pylades, than thine.
  In home-spun russet, I am drest,
  Your cloth is always of the best;
  But, honest Marcus, if you please
  To chuse me for your Pylades,
  Remember, words alone are vain;
  Love--if you would be lov'd again. F. LEWIS.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

No depravity of the mind has been more frequently or justly censured than ingratitude. There
is indeed sufficient reason for looking on those that can return evil for good, and repay kindness
and assistance with hatred or neglect, as corrupted beyond the common degrees of wickedness;
nor will he, who has once been clearly detected in acts of injury to his benefactor, deserve
to be numbered among social beings; he has endeavoured to destroy confidence, to intercept
sympathy, and to turn every man's attention wholly on himself.

There is always danger lest the honest abhorrence of a crime should raise the passions with
too much violence against the man to whom it is imputed. In proportion as guilt is more enormous,
it ought to be ascertained by stronger evidence. The charge against ingratitude is very general;
almost every man can tell what favours he has conferred upon insensibility, and how much happiness
he has bestowed without return; but perhaps, if these patrons and protectors were confronted
with any whom they boast of having befriended, it would often appear that they consulted only
their pleasure or vanity, and repaid themselves their petty donatives by gratifications of
insolence and indulgence of contempt.

It has happened that much of my time has been passed in a dependent state, and consequently
I have received many favours in the opinion of those at whose expense I have been maintained;
yet I do not feel in my heart any burning gratitude or tumultuous affection; and, as I would
not willingly suppose myself less susceptible of virtuous passions than the rest of mankind,
I shall lay the history of my life before you, that you may, by your judgment of my conduct,
either reform, or confirm, my present sentiments. My father was the second son of a very ancient
and wealthy family. He married a lady of equal birth, whose fortune, joined to his own, might
have supported his posterity in honour; but being gay and ambitious, he prevailed on his friends
to procure him a post, which gave him an opportunity of displaying his elegance and politeness.
My mother was equally pleased with splendour, and equally careless of expense; they both justified
their profusion to themselves, by endeavouring to believe it necessary to the extension of
their acquaintance, and improvement of their interest; and whenever any place became vacant,
they expected to be repaid. In the midst of these hopes my father was snatched away by an apoplexy;
and my mother, who had no pleasure but in dress, equipage, assemblies, and compliments, finding
that she could live no longer in her accustomed rank, sunk into dejection, and in two years
wore out her life with envy and discontent.

I was sent with a sister, one year younger than myself, to the elder brother of my father.
We were not yet capable of observing how much fortune influences affection, but flattered ourselves
on the road with the tenderness and regard with which we should be treated by our uncle. Our
reception was rather frigid than malignant; we were introduced to our young cousins, and for
the first month more frequently consoled than upbraided; but in a short time we found our prattle
repressed, our dress neglected, our endearments unregarded, and our requests referred to the
housekeeper.

The forms of decency were now violated, and every day produced new insults. We were soon brought
to the necessity of receding from our imagined equality with our cousins, to whom we sunk into
humble companions without choice or influence, expected only to echo their opinions, facilitate
their desires, and accompany their rambles. It was unfortunate that our early introduction
into polite company, and habitual knowledge of the arts of civility, had given us such an appearance
of superiority to the awkward bashfulness of our relations, as naturally drew respect and preference
from every stranger; and my aunt was forced to assert the dignity of her own children, while
they were sculking in corners for fear of notice, and hanging down their heads in silent confusion,
by relating the indiscretion of our father, displaying her own kindness, lamenting the misery
of birth without estate, and declaring her anxiety for our future provision, and the expedients
which she had formed to secure us from those follies or crimes, to which the conjunction of
pride and want often gives occasion. In a short time care was taken to prevent such vexatious
mistakes; we were told, that fine clothes would only fill our heads with false expectations,
and our dress was therefore accommodated to our fortune.

Childhood is not easily dejected or mortified. We felt no lasting pain from insolence or neglect;
but finding that we were favoured and commended by all whose interest did not prompt them to
discountenance us, preserved our vivacity and spirit to years of greater sensibility. It then
became irksome and disgusting to live without any principle of action but the will of another,
and we often met privately in the garden to lament our condition, and to ease our hearts with
mutual narratives of caprice, peevishness, and affront.

There are innumerable modes of insult and tokens of contempt, for which it is not easy to find
a name, which vanish to nothing in an attempt to describe them, and yet may, by continual repetition,
make day pass after day in sorrow and in terrour. Phrases of cursory compliment and established
salutation may, by a different modulation of the voice, or cast of the countenance, convey
contrary meanings, and be changed from indications of respect to expressions of scorn. The
dependant who cultivates delicacy in himself, very little consults his own tranquillity. My
unhappy vigilance is every moment discovering some petulance of accent, or arrogance of mien,
some vehemence of interrogation, or quickness of reply, that recals my poverty to my mind,
and which I feel more acutely, as I know not how to resent it.

You are not, however, to imagine, that I think myself discharged from the duties of gratitude,
only because my relations do not adjust their looks, or tune their voices to my expectation.
The insolence of benefaction terminates not in negative rudeness or obliquities of insult.
I am often told in express terms of the miseries from which charity has snatched me, while
multitudes are suffered by relations equally near to devolve upon the parish; and have more
than once heard it numbered among other favours, that I am admitted to the same table with
my cousins.

That I sit at the first table I must acknowledge, but I sit there only that I may feel the
stings of inferiority. My inquiries are neglected, my opinion is overborne, my assertions are
controverted, and, as insolence always propagates itself, the servants overlook me, in imitation
of their master; if I call modestly, I am not heard; if loudly, my usurpation of authority
is checked by a general frown. I am often obliged to look uninvited upon delicacies, and sometimes
desired to rise upon very slight pretences.

The incivilities to which I am exposed would give me less pain, were they not aggravated by
the tears of my sister, whom the young ladies are hourly tormenting with every art of feminine
persecution. As it is said of the supreme magistrate of Venice, that he is a prince in one
place and a slave in another, my sister is a servant to her cousins in their apartments, and
a companion only at the table. Her wit and beauty drew so much regard away from them, that
they never suffer her to appear with them in any place where they solicit notice, or expect
admiration; and when they are visited by neighbouring ladies and pass their hours in domestick
amusements, she is sometimes called to fill a vacancy, insulted with contemptuous freedoms,
and dismissed to her needle, when her place is supplied. The heir has of late, by the instigation
of his sisters, begun to harass her with clownish jocularity; he seems inclined to make his
first rude essays of waggery upon her; and by the connivance, if not encouragement, of his
father, treats her with such licentious brutality, as I cannot bear, though I cannot punish it.

I beg to be informed, Mr. Rambler, how much we can be supposed to owe to beneficence, exerted
on terms like these? to beneficence which pollutes its gifts with contumely, and may be truly
said to pander to pride? I would willingly be told, whether insolence does not reward its own
liberalities, and whether he that exacts servility can, with justice, at the same time, expect
affection?

I am, Sir, &c.

HYPERDULUS.

No. 150. SATURDAY, AUGUST 24, 1751.

  --O munera nondum
  Intellecta Deum! LUCAN.

  --Thou chiefest good!
  Bestow'd by Heav'n, but seldom understood. ROWE.

As daily experience makes it evident that misfortunes are unavoidably incident to human life,
that calamity will neither be repelled by fortitude, nor escaped by flight; neither awed by
greatness, nor eluded by obscurity; philosophers have endeavoured to reconcile us to that condition
which they cannot teach us to mend, by persuading us that most of our evils are made afflictive
only by ignorance or perverseness, and that nature has annexed to every vicissitude of external
circumstances some advantage sufficient to over-balance all its inconveniencies.

This attempt may, perhaps, be justly suspected of resemblance to the practice of physicians,
who, when they cannot mitigate pain, destroy sensibility, and endeavour to conceal, by opiates,
the inefficacy of their other medicines. The panegyrists of calamity have more frequently gained
applause to their wit, than acquiescence to their arguments; nor has it appeared that the most
musical oratory, or subtle ratiocination, has been able long to overpower the anguish of oppression,
the tediousness of languor, or the longings of want.

Yet, it may be generally remarked, that, where much has been attempted, something has been
performed; though the discoveries or acquisitions of man are not always adequate to the expectations
of his pride, they are at least sufficient to animate his industry. The antidotes with which
philosophy has medicated the cup of life, though they cannot give it salubrity and sweetness,
have at least allayed its bitterness, and contempered its malignity; the balm which she drops
upon the wounds of the mind abates their pain, though it cannot heal them.

By suffering willingly what we cannot avoid, we secure ourselves from vain and immoderate disquiet;
we preserve for better purposes that strength which would be unprofitably wasted in wild efforts
of desperation, and maintain that circumspection which may enable us to seize every support,
and improve every alleviation. This calmness will be more easily obtained, as the attention
is more powerfully withdrawn from the contemplation of unmingled unabated evil, and diverted
to those accidental benefits which prudence may confer on every state.

Seneca has attempted, not only to pacify us in misfortune, but almost to allure us to it, by
representing it as necessary to the pleasures of the mind. He that never was acquainted with
adversity, says he, has seen the world but on one side, and is ignorant of half the scenes
of nature. He invites his pupil to calamity, as the Syrens allured the passenger to their coasts,
by promising that he shall return [Greek: pleiona eidos], with increase of knowledge, with
enlarged views, and multiplied ideas.

Curiosity is, in great and generous minds, the first passion and the last; and perhaps always
predominates in proportion to the strength of the contemplative faculties. He who easily comprehends
all that is before him, and soon exhausts any single subject, is always eager for new inquiries;
and, in proportion as the intellectual eye takes in a wider prospect, it must be gratified
with variety by more rapid flights, and bolder excursions; nor perhaps can there be proposed
to those who have been accustomed to the pleasures of thought, a more powerful incitement to
any undertaking, than the hope of filling their fancy with new images, of clearing their doubts,
and enlightening their reason.

When Jason, in Valerius Flaccus, would incline the young prince Acastus to accompany him in
the first essay of navigation, he disperses his apprehensions of danger by representations
of the new tracts of earth and heaven, which the expedition would spread before their eyes;
and tells him with what grief he will hear, at their return, of the countries which they shall
have seen, and the toils which they have surmounted:

  O quantum terrae, quantum cognoscere coeli
  Permissum est! pelagus quantos aperimus in usus!
  Nunc forsan grave reris opus: sed laeta recurret
  Cum ratis, et caram cum jam mihi reddet Iolcon;
  Quis pudor heu nostros tibi tunc audire labores!
  Quam referam visas tua per suspiria gentes!    ARG. Lib. i. 168.

  Led by our stars, what tracts immense we trace!
  From seas remote, what funds of science raise!
  A pain to thought! but when the heroick band
  Returns applauded to their native land,
  A life domestick you will then deplore,
  And sigh while I describe the various, shore.     EDW. CAVE.

Acastus was soon prevailed upon by his curiosity to set rocks and hardships at defiance, and
commit his life to the winds; and the same motives have in all ages had the same effect upon
those whom the desire of fame or wisdom has distinguished from the lower orders of mankind.

If, therefore, it can be proved that distress is necessary to the attainment of knowledge,
and that a happy situation hides from us so large a part of the field of meditation, the envy
of many who repine at the sight of affluence and splendour will be much diminished; for such
is the delight of mental superiority, that none on whom nature or study have conferred it,
would purchase the gifts of fortune by its loss.

It is certain, that however the rhetorick of Seneca may have dressed adversity with extrinsick
ornaments, he has justly represented it as affording some opportunities of observation, which
cannot be found in continual success; he has truly asserted, that to escape misfortune is to
want instruction, and that to live at ease is to live in ignorance.

As no man can enjoy happiness without thinking that he enjoys it, the experience of calamity
is necessary to a just sense of better fortune: for the good of our present state is merely
comparative, and the evil which every man feels will be sufficient to disturb and harass him,
if he does not know how much he escapes. The lustre of diamonds is invigorated by the interposition
of darker bodies; the lights of a picture are created by the shades. The highest pleasure which
nature has indulged to sensitive perception, is that of rest after fatigue; yet, that state
which labour heightens into delight, is of itself only ease, and is incapable of satisfying
the mind without the superaddition of diversified amusements.

Prosperity, as is truly asserted by Seneca, very much obstructs the knowledge of ourselves.
No man can form a just estimate of his own powers by unactive speculation. That fortitude which
has encountered no dangers, that prudence which has surmounted no difficulties, that integrity
which has been attacked by no temptations, can at best be considered but as gold not yet brought
to the test, of which therefore the true value cannot be assigned. He that traverses the lists
without an adversary, may receive, says the philosopher, the reward of victory, but he has
no pretensions to the honour. If it be the highest happiness of man to contemplate himself
with satisfaction, and to receive the gratulations of his own conscience; he whose courage
has made way amidst the turbulence of opposition, and whose vigour has broken through the snares
of distress, has many advantages over those that have slept in the shades of indolence, and
whose retrospect of time can entertain them with nothing but day rising upon day, and year
gliding after year.

Equally necessary is some variety of fortune to a nearer inspection of the manners, principles,
and affections of mankind. Princes, when they would know the opinions or grievances of their
subjects, find it necessary to steal away from guards and attendants, and mingle on equal terms
among the people. To him who is known to have the power of doing good or harm, nothing is shewn
in its natural form. The behaviour of all that approach him is regulated by his humour, their
narratives are adapted to his inclination, and their reasonings determined by his opinions;
whatever can alarm suspicion, or excite resentment, is carefully suppressed, and nothing appears
but uniformity of sentiments, and ardour of affection. It may be observed, that the unvaried
complaisance which ladies have the right of exacting, keeps them generally unskilled in human
nature; prosperity will always enjoy the female prerogatives, and therefore must be always
in danger of female ignorance. Truth is scarcely to be heard, but by those from whom it can
serve no interest to conceal it.

No. 151. TUESDAY, AUGUST 27, 1751.

  [Greek:--Amphi d anthro-
  pon phresin amplakiai
  Anarithmatoi kremantai
  Touto d amachanon eurein,
  O ti nun, kai en teleu-
  ta, phertaton andri tuchein.] PINDAR, Ol. vii. 43.

  But wrapt in error is the human mind,
    And human bliss is ever insecure:
  Know we what fortune yet remains behind?
    Know we how long the present shall endure? WEST.

The writers of medicine and physiology have traced, with great appearance of accuracy, the
effects of time upon the human body, by marking the various periods of the constitution, and
the several stages by which animal life makes its progress from infancy to decrepitude. Though
their observations have not enabled them to discover how manhood may be accelerated, or old
age retarded, yet surely, if they be considered only as the amusements of curiosity, they are
of equal importance with conjectures on things more remote, with catalogues of the fixed stars,
and calculations of the bulk of planets.

It had been a task worthy of the moral philosophers to have considered with equal care the
climactericks of the mind; to have pointed out the time at which every passion begins and ceases
to predominate, and noted the regular variations of desire, and the succession of one appetite
to another.

The periods of mental change are not to be stated with equal certainty; our bodies grow up
under the care of nature, and depend so little on our own management, that something more than
negligence is necessary to discompose their structure, or impede their vigour. But our minds
are committed in a great measure first to the direction of others, and afterwards of ourselves.
It would be difficult to protract the weakness of infancy beyond the usual time, but the mind
may be very easily hindered from its share of improvement, and the bulk and strength of manhood
must, without the assistance of education and instruction, be informed only with the understanding
of a child.

Yet, amidst all the disorder and inequality which variety of discipline, example, conversation,
and employment, produce in the intellectual advances of different men, there is still discovered,
by a vigilant spectator, such a general and remote similitude, as may be expected in the same
common nature affected by external circumstances indefinitely varied. We all enter the world
in equal ignorance, gaze round about us on the same objects, and have our first pains and pleasures,
our first hopes and fears, our first aversions and desires, from the same causes; and though,
as we proceed farther, life opens wider prospects to our view, and accidental impulses determine
us to different paths, yet as every mind, however vigorous or abstracted, is necessitated,
in its present state of union, to receive its informations, and execute its purposes, by the
intervention of the body, the uniformity of our corporeal nature communicates itself to our
intellectual operations; and those whose abilities or knowledge incline them most to deviate
from the general round of life, are recalled from eccentricity by the laws of their existence.

If we consider the exercises of the mind, it will be found that in each part of life some particular
faculty is more eminently employed. When the treasures of knowledge are first opened before
us, while novelty blooms alike on either hand, and every thing equally unknown and unexamined
seems of equal value, the power of the soul is principally exerted in a vivacious and desultory
curiosity. She applies by turns to every object, enjoys it for a short time, and flies with
equal ardour to another. She delights to catch up loose and unconnected ideas, but starts away
from systems and complications, which would obstruct the rapidity of her transitions, and detain
her long in the same pursuit.

When a number of distinct images are collected by these erratick and hasty surveys, the fancy
is busied in arranging them; and combines them into pleasing pictures with more resemblance
to the realities of life as experience advances, and new observations rectify the former. While
the judgment is yet uninformed, and unable to compare the draughts of fiction with their originals,
we are delighted with improbable adventures, impracticable virtues, and inimitable characters:
but, in proportion as we have more opportunities of acquainting ourselves with living nature,
we are sooner disgusted with copies in which there appears no resemblance. We first discard
absurdity and impossibility, then exact greater and greater degrees of probability, but at
last become cold and insensible to the charms of falsehood, however specious, and, from the
imitations of truth, which are never perfect, transfer our affection to truth itself.

Now commences the reign of judgment or reason; we begin to find little pleasure but in comparing
arguments, stating propositions, disentangling perplexities, clearing ambiguities, and deducing
consequences. The painted vales of imagination are deserted, and our intellectual activity
is exercised in winding through the labyrinths of fallacy, and toiling with firm and cautious
steps up the narrow tracks of demonstration. Whatever may lull vigilance, or mislead attention,
is contemptuously rejected, and every disguise in which errour may be concealed, is carefully
observed, till, by degrees, a certain number of incontestable or unsuspected propositions are
established, and at last concatenated into arguments, or compacted into systems.

At length weariness succeeds to labour, and the mind lies at ease in the contemplation of her
own attainments, without any desire of new conquests or excursions. This is the age of recollection
and narrative; the opinions are settled, and the avenues of apprehension shut against any new
intelligence; the days that are to follow must pass in the inculcation of precepts already
collected, and assertion of tenets already received; nothing is henceforward so odious as opposition,
so insolent as doubt, or so dangerous as novelty.

In like manner the passions usurp the separate command of the successive periods of life. To
the happiness of our first years nothing more seems necessary than freedom from restraint:
every man may remember that if he was left to himself, and indulged in the disposal of his
own time, he was once content without the superaddition of any actual pleasure. The new world
is itself a banquet; and, till we have exhausted the freshness of life, we have always about
us sufficient gratifications: the sunshine quickens us to play, and the shade invites us to sleep.

But we soon become unsatisfied with negative felicity, and are solicited by our senses and
appetites to more powerful delights, as the taste of him who has satisfied his hunger must
be excited by artificial stimulations. The simplicity of natural amusement is now past, and
art and contrivance must improve our pleasures; but, in time, art, like nature, is exhausted,
and the senses can no longer supply the cravings of the intellect.

The attention is then transferred from pleasure to interest, in which pleasure is perhaps included,
though diffused to a wider extent, and protracted through new gradations. Nothing now dances
before the eyes but wealth and power, nor rings in the ear, but the voice of fame; wealth,
to which, however variously denominated, every man at some time or other aspires; power, which
all wish to obtain within their circle of action; and fame, which no man, however high or mean,
however wise or ignorant, was yet able to despise. Now prudence and foresight exert their influence:
no hour is devoted wholly to any present enjoyment, no act or purpose terminates in itself,
but every motion is referred to some distant end; the accomplishment of one design begins another,
and the ultimate wish is always pushed off to its former distance.

At length fame is observed to be uncertain, and power to be dangerous; the man whose vigour
and alacrity begin to forsake him, by degrees contracts his designs, remits his former multiplicity
of pursuits, and extends no longer his regard to any other honour than the reputation of wealth,
or any other influence than his power. Avarice is generally the last passion of those lives
of which the first part has been squandered in pleasure, and the second devoted to ambition.
He that sinks under the fatigue of getting wealth, lulls his age with the milder business of
saving it.

I have in this view of life considered man as actuated only by natural desires, and yielding
to their own inclinations, without regard to superior principles, by which the force of external
agents may be counteracted, and the temporary prevalence of passions restrained. Nature will
indeed always operate, human desires will be always ranging; but these motions, though very
powerful, are not resistless; nature may be regulated, and desires governed; and, to contend
with the predominance of successive passions, to be endangered first by one affection, and
then by another, is the condition upon which we are to pass our time, the time of our preparation
for that state which shall put an end to experiment, to disappointment, and to change.

No. 152. SATURDAY, AUGUST 31, 1751.

  --Tristia maestum
  Vullum verba decent, iratum plena minarum. HOR. De Ar. Poet. 105.

  Disastrous words can best disaster shew;
  In angry phrase the angry passions glow. ELPHINSTON.

"It was the wisdom," says Seneca, "of ancient times, to consider what is most useful as most
illustrious." If this rule be applied to works of genius, scarcely any species of composition
deserves more to be cultivated than the epistolary style, since none is of more various or
frequent use through the whole subordination of human life.

It has yet happened that, among the numerous writers which our nation has produced, equal,
perhaps, always in force and genius, and of late in elegance and accuracy, to those of any
other country, very few have endeavoured to distinguish themselves by the publication of letters,
except such as were written in the discharge of publick trusts, and during the transaction
of great affairs; which, though they afford precedents to the minister, and memorials to the
historian, are of no use as examples of the familiar style, or models of private correspondence.

If it be inquired by foreigners, how this deficiency has happened in the literature of a country,
where all indulge themselves with so little danger in speaking and writing, may we not without
either bigotry or arrogance inform them, that it must be imputed to our contempt of trifles,
and our due sense of the dignity of the publick? We do not think it reasonable to fill the
world with volumes from which nothing can be learned, nor expect that the employments of the
busy, or the amusements of the gay, should give way to narratives of our private affairs, complaints
of absence, expressions of fondness, or declarations of fidelity.

A slight perusal of the innumerable letters by which the wits of France have signalized their
names, will prove that other nations need not be discouraged from the like attempts by the
consciousness of inability; for surely it is not very difficult to aggravate trifling misfortunes,
to magnify familiar incidents, repeat adulatory professions, accumulate servile hyperboles,
and produce all that can be found in the despicable remains of Voiture and Scarron.

Yet, as much of life must be passed in affairs considerable only by their frequent occurrence,
and much of the pleasure which our condition allows, must be produced by giving elegance to
trifles, it is necessary to learn how to become little without becoming mean, to maintain the
necessary intercourse of civility, and fill up the vacuities of actions by agreeable appearances.
It had therefore been of advantage, if such of our writers as have excelled in the art of decorating
insignificance, had supplied us with a few sallies of innocent gaiety, effusions of honest
tenderness, or exclamations of unimportant hurry.

Precept has generally been posterior to performance. The art of composing works of genius has
never been taught but by the example of those who performed it by natural vigour of imagination,
and rectitude of judgment. As we have few letters, we have likewise few criticisms upon the
epistolary style. The observations with which Walsh has introduced his pages of inanity, are
such as give him little claim to the rank assigned him by Dryden among the criticks. Letters,
says he, are intended as resemblances of conversation, and the chief excellencies of conversation
are good humour and good breeding. This remark, equally valuable for its novelty and propriety,
he dilates and enforces with an appearance of complete acquiescence in his own discovery.

No man was ever in doubt about the moral qualities of a letter. It has been always known that
he who endeavours to please must appear pleased, and he who would not provoke rudeness must
not practise it. But the question among those who establish rules for an epistolary performance
is how gaiety or civility may be properly expressed; as among the criticks in history it is
not contested whether truth ought to be preserved, but by what mode of diction it is best adorned.

As letters are written on all subjects, in all states of mind, they cannot be properly reduced
to settled rules, or described by any single characteristick; and we may safely disentangle
our minds from critical embarrassments, by determining that a letter has no peculiarity but
its form, and that nothing is to be refused admission, which would be proper in any other method
of treating the same subject. The qualities of the epistolary style most frequently required,
are ease and simplicity, an even flow of unlaboured diction, and an artless arrangement of
obvious sentiments. But these directions are no sooner applied to use, than their scantiness
and imperfection become evident. Letters are written to the great and to the mean, to the learned
and the ignorant, at rest and in distress, in sport and in passion. Nothing can be more improper
than ease and laxity of expression, when the importance of the subject impresses solicitude,
or the dignity of the person exacts reverence.

That letters should be written with strict conformity to nature is true, because nothing but
conformity to nature can make any composition beautiful or just. But it is natural to depart
from familiarity of language upon occasions not familiar. Whatever elevates the sentiments
will consequently raise the expression; whatever fills us with hope or terrour, will produce
some perturbation of images and some figurative distortions of phrase. Wherever we are studious
to please, we are afraid of trusting our first thoughts, and endeavour to recommend our opinion
by studied ornaments, accuracy of method, and elegance of style.

If the personages of the comick scene be allowed by Horace to raise their language in the transports
of anger to the turgid vehemence of tragedy, the epistolary writer may likewise without censure
comply with the varieties of his matter. If great events are to be related, he may with all
the solemnity of an historian deduce them from their causes, connect them with their concomitants,
and trace them to their consequences. If a disputed position is to be established, or a remote
principle to be investigated, he may detail his reasonings with all the nicety of syllogistick
method. If a menace is to be averted, or a benefit implored, he may, without any violation
of the edicts of criticism, call every power of rhetorick to his assistance, and try every
inlet at which love or pity enters the heart.

Letters that have no other end than the entertainment of the correspondents are more properly
regulated by critical precepts, because the matter and style are equally arbitrary, and rules
are more necessary, as there is a larger power of choice. In letters of this kind, some conceive
art graceful, and others think negligence amiable; some model them by the sonnet, and will
allow them no means of delighting but the soft lapse of calm mellifluence; others adjust them
by the epigram, and expect pointed sentences and forcible periods. The one party considers
exemption from faults as the height of excellence, the other looks upon neglect of excellence
as the most disgusting fault; one avoids censure, the other aspires to praise; one is always
in danger of insipidity, the other continually on the brink of affectation.

When the subject has no intrinsick dignity, it must necessarily owe its attractions to artificial
embellishments, and may catch at all advantages which the art of writing can supply. He that,
like Pliny, sends his friend a portion for his daughter, will, without Pliny's eloquence or
address, find means of exciting gratitude, and securing acceptance; but he that has no present
to make but a garland, a riband, or some petty curiosity, must endeavour to recommend it by
his manner of giving it.

The purpose for which letters are written when no intelligence is communicated, or business
transacted, is to preserve in the minds of the absent either love or esteem: to excite love
we must impart pleasure, and to raise esteem we must discover abilities. Pleasure will generally
be given, as abilities are displayed by scenes of imagery, points of conceit, unexpected sallies,
and artful compliments. Trifles always require exuberance of ornament; the building which has
no strength can be valued only for the grace of its decorations. The pebble must be polished
with care, which hopes to be valued as a diamond; and words ought surely to be laboured, when
they are intended to stand for things.

No. 153. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1751

  Turba Remi? Sequitur Fortunam, ut semper, et odit
  Damnatos. JUV. Sat. x. 73.

  The fickle crowd with fortune comes and goes;
  Wealth still finds followers, and misfortune foes.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

There are occasions on which all apology is rudeness. He that has an unwelcome message to deliver,
may give some proof of tenderness and delicacy, by a ceremonial introduction and gradual discovery,
because the mind, upon which the weight of sorrow is to fall, gains time for the collection
of its powers; but nothing is more absurd than to delay the communication of pleasure, to torment
curiosity by impatience, and to delude hope by anticipation.

I shall therefore forbear the arts by which correspondents generally secure admission, for
I have too long remarked the power of vanity, to doubt that I shall be read by you with a disposition
to approve, when I declare that my narrative has no other tendency than to illustrate and corroborate
your own observations.

I was the second son of a gentleman, whose patrimony had been wasted by a long succession of
squanderers, till he was unable to support any of his children, except his heir, in the hereditary
dignity of idleness. Being therefore obliged to employ that part of life in study which my
progenitors had devoted to the hawk and hound, I was in my eighteenth year despatched to the
university, without any rural honours. I had never killed a single woodcock, nor partaken one
triumph over a conquered fox.

At the university I continued to enlarge my acquisitions with little envy of the noisy happiness
which my elder brother had the fortune to enjoy; and, having obtained my degree, retired to
consider at leisure to what profession I should confine that application which had hitherto
been dissipated in general knowledge. To deliberate upon a choice which custom and honour forbid
to be retracted, is certainly reasonable; yet to let loose the attention equally to the advantages
and inconveniencies of every employment is not without danger; new motives are every moment
operating on every side; and mechanicks have long ago discovered, that contrariety of equal
attractions is equivalent to rest.

While I was thus trifling in uncertainty, an old adventurer, who had been once the intimate
friend of my father, arrived from the Indies with a large fortune; which he had so much harassed
himself in obtaining, that sickness and infirmity left him no other desire than to die in his
native country. His wealth easily procured him an invitation to pass his life with us; and,
being incapable of any amusement but conversation, he necessarily became familiarized to me,
whom he found studious and domestick. Pleased with an opportunity of imparting my knowledge,
and eager of any intelligence that might increase it, I delighted his curiosity with historical
narratives and explications of nature, and gratified his vanity by inquiries after the products
of distant countries, and the customs of their inhabitants.

My brother saw how much I advanced in the favour of our guest, who, being without heirs, was
naturally expected to enrich the family of his friend, but never attempted to alienate me,
nor to ingratiate himself. He was, indeed, little qualified to solicit the affection of a traveller,
for the remissness of his education had left him without any rule of action but his present
humour. He often forsook the old gentleman in the midst of an adventure, because the horn sounded
in the court-yard, and would have lost an opportunity, not only of knowing the history, but
sharing the wealth of the mogul, for the trial of a new pointer, or the sight of a horse-race.

It was therefore not long before our new friend declared his intention of bequeathing to me
the profits of his commerce, as the only man in the family by whom he could expect them to
be rationally enjoyed. This distinction drew upon me the envy not only of my brother but my father.

As no man is willing to believe that he suffers by his own fault, they imputed the preference
which I had obtained to adulatory compliances, or malignant calumnies. To no purpose did I
call upon my patron to attest my innocence, for who will believe what he wishes to be false?
In the heat of disappointment they forced their inmate by repeated insults to depart from the
house, and I was soon, by the same treatment, obliged to follow him.

He chose his residence in the confines of London, where rest, tranquillity, and medicine, restored
him to part of the health which he had lost. I pleased myself with perceiving that I was not
likely to obtain the immediate possession of wealth which no labour of mine had contributed
to acquire; and that he, who had thus distinguished me, might hope to end his life without
a total frustration of those blessings, which, whatever be their real value, he had sought
with so much diligence, and purchased with so many vicissitudes of danger and fatigue.

He, indeed, left me no reason to repine at his recovery, for he was willing to accustom me
early to the use of money, and set apart for my expenses such a revenue as I had scarcely dared
to image. I can yet congratulate myself that fortune has seen her golden cup once tasted without
inebriation. Neither my modesty nor prudence was overwhelmed by affluence; my elevation was
without insolence, and my expense without profusion. Employing the influence which money always
confers, to the improvement of my understanding, I mingled in parties of gaiety, and in conferences
of learning, appeared in every place where instruction was to be found, and imagined that,
by ranging through all the diversities of life, I had acquainted myself fully with human nature,
and learned all that was to be known of the ways of men.

It happened, however, that I soon discovered how much was wanted to the completion of my knowledge,
and found that, according to Seneca's remark, I had hitherto seen the world but on one side.
My patron's confidence in his increase of strength tempted him to carelessness and irregularity;
he caught a fever by riding in the rain, of which he died delirious on the third day. I buried
him without any of the heir's affected grief or secret exultation; then preparing to take a
legal possession of his fortune, I opened his closet, where I found a will, made at his first
arrival, by which my father was appointed the chief inheritor, and nothing was left me but
a legacy sufficient to support me in the prosecution of my studies.

I had not yet found such charms in prosperity as to continue it by any acts of forgery or injustice,
and made haste to inform my father of the riches which had been given him, not by the preference
of kindness, but by the delays of indolence and cowardice of age. The hungry family flew like
vultures on their prey, and soon made my disappointment publick, by the tumult of their claims,
and the splendour of their sorrow.

It was now my part to consider how I should repair the disappointment. I could not but triumph
in my long list of friends, which comprised almost every name that power or knowledge entitled
to eminence; and, in the prospect of the innumerable roads to honour and preferment, which
I had laid open to myself by the wise use of temporary riches, I believed nothing necessary
but that I should continue that acquaintance to which I had been so readily admitted, and which
had hitherto been cultivated on both sides with equal ardour.

Full of these expectations, I one morning ordered a chair, with an intention to make my usual
circle of morning visits. Where I first stopped I saw two footmen lolling at the door, who
told me without any change of posture, or collection of countenance, that their master was
at home, and suffered me to open the inner door without assistance. I found my friend standing,
and, as I was tattling with my former freedom, was formally entreated to sit down; but did
not stay to be favoured with any further condescensions.

My next experiment was made at the levee of a statesman, who received me with an embrace of
tenderness, that he might with more decency publish my change of fortune to the sycophants
about him. After he had enjoyed the triumph of condolence, he turned to a wealthy stockjobber,
and left me exposed to the scorn of those who had lately courted my notice, and solicited my
interest.

I was then set down at the door of another, who, upon my entrance, advised me, with great solemnity,
to think of some settled provision for life. I left him, and hurried away to an old friend,
who professed himself unsusceptible of any impressions from prosperity or misfortune, and begged
that he might see me when he was more at leisure.

Of sixty-seven doors, at which I knocked in the first week after my appearance in a mourning
dress, I was denied admission at forty-six; was suffered at fourteen to wait in the outer room
till business was despatched; at four, was entertained with a few questions about the weather;
at one, heard the footman rated for bringing my name; and at two was informed, in the flow
of casual conversation, how much a man of rank degrades himself by mean company.

My curiosity now led me to try what reception I should find among the ladies; but I found that
my patron had carried all my powers of pleasing to the grave. I had formerly been celebrated
as a wit, and not perceiving any languor in my imagination, I essayed to revive that gaiety
which had hitherto broken out involuntarily before my sentences were finished. My remarks were
now heard with a steady countenance, and if a girl happened to give way to habitual merriment,
her forwardness was repressed with a frown by her mother or her aunt.

Wherever I come I scatter infirmity and disease; every lady whom I meet in the Mall is too
weary to walk; all whom I entreat to sing are troubled with colds: if I propose cards, they
are afflicted with the head-ach;  if I invite them to the gardens, they cannot bear a crowd.

All this might be endured; but there is a class of mortals who think my understanding impaired
with my fortune, exalt themselves to the dignity of advice, and, whenever we happen to meet,
presume to prescribe my conduct, regulate my economy, and direct my pursuits. Another race,
equally impertinent and equally despicable, are every moment recommending to me an attention
to my interest, and think themselves entitled, by their superior prudence, to reproach me if
I speak or move without regard to profit.

Such, Mr. Rambler, is the power of wealth, that it commands the ear of greatness and the eye
of beauty, gives spirit to the dull, and authority to the timorous, and leaves him from whom
it departs, without virtue and without understanding, the sport of caprice, the scoff of insolence,
the slave of meanness, and the pupil of ignorance.

I am, &c.

No. 154. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1751.

  --Tibi res antiquae laudis et artis
  Ingredior, sanctos ausus recludere fontes. VIR. Geo. ii. 174.

  For thee my tuneful accents will I raise,
  And treat of arts disclos'd in ancient days;
  Once more unlock for thee the sacred spring. DRYDEN.

The direction of Aristotle to those that study politicks, is first to examine and understand
what has been written by the ancients upon government; then to cast their eyes round upon the
world, and consider by what causes the prosperity of communities is visibly influenced, and
why some are worse, and others better administered.

The same method must be pursued by him who hopes to become eminent in any other part of knowledge.
The first task is to search books, the next to contemplate nature. He must first possess himself
of the intellectual treasures which the diligence of former ages has accumulated, and then
endeavour to increase them by his own collections.

The mental disease of the present generation, is impatience of study, contempt of the great
masters of ancient wisdom, and a disposition to rely wholly upon unassisted genius and natural
sagacity. The wits of these happy days have discovered a way to fame, which the dull caution
of our laborious ancestors durst never attempt; they cut the knots of sophistry which it was
formerly the business of years to untie, solve difficulties by sudden irradiations of intelligence,
and comprehend long processes of argument by immediate intuition.

Men who have flattered themselves into this opinion of their own abilities, look down on all
who waste their lives over books, as a race of inferior beings, condemned by nature to perpetual
pupilage, and fruitlessly endeavouring to remedy their barrenness by incessant cultivation,
or succour their feebleness by subsidiary strength. They presume that none would be more industrious
than they, if they were not more sensible of deficiencies; and readily conclude, that he who
places no confidence in his own powers, owes his modesty only to his weakness.

It is however certain, that no estimate is more in danger of erroneous calculations than those
by which a man computes the force of his own genius. It generally happens at our entrance into
the world, that, by the natural attraction of similitude, we associate with men like ourselves,
young, sprightly, and ignorant, and rate our accomplishments by comparison with theirs; when
we have once obtained an acknowledged superiority over our acquaintances, imagination and desire
easily extend it over the rest of mankind, and if no accident forces us into new emulations,
we grow old, and die in admiration of ourselves.

Vanity, thus confirmed in her dominion, readily listens to the voice of idleness, and sooths
the slumber of life with continual dreams of excellence and greatness. A man, elated by confidence
in his natural vigour of fancy and sagacity of conjecture, soon concludes that he already possesses
whatever toil and inquiry can confer. He then listens with eagerness to the wild objections
which folly has raised against the common means of improvement; talks of the dark chaos of
indigested knowledge; describes the mischievous effects of heterogeneous sciences fermenting
in the mind; relates the blunders of lettered ignorance; expatiates on the heroick merit of
those who deviate from prescription, or shake off authority; and gives vent to the inflations
of his heart by declaring that he owes nothing to pedants and universities.

All these pretensions, however confident, are very often vain. The laurels which superficial
acuteness gains in triumphs over ignorance unsupported by vivacity, are observed by Locke to
be lost, whenever real learning and rational diligence appear against her; the sallies of gaiety
are soon repressed by calm confidence; and the artifices of subtilty are readily detected by
those, who, having carefully studied the question, are not easily confounded or surprised.

But, though the contemner of books had neither been deceived by others nor himself, and was
really born with a genius surpassing the ordinary abilities of mankind; yet surely such gifts
of Providence may be more properly urged as incitements to labour, than encouragements to negligence.
He that neglects the culture of ground naturally fertile, is more shamefully culpable, than
he whose field would scarcely recompense his husbandry.

Cicero remarks, that not to know what has been transacted in former times, is to continue always
a child. If no use is made of the labours of past ages, the world must remain always in the
infancy of knowledge. The discoveries of every man must terminate in his own advantage, and
the studies of every age be employed on questions which the past generation had discussed and
determined. We may with as little reproach borrow science as manufactures from our ancestors;
and it is as rational to live in caves till our own hands have erected a palace, as to reject
all knowledge of architecture which our understandings will not supply.

To the strongest and quickest mind it is far easier to learn than to invent. The principles
of arithmetick and geometry may be comprehended by a close attention in a few days; yet who
can flatter himself that the study of a long life would have enabled him to discover them,
when he sees them yet unknown to so many nations, whom he cannot suppose less liberally endowed
with natural reason, than the Grecians or Egyptians?

Every science was thus far advanced towards perfection, by the emulous diligence of contemporary
students, and the gradual discoveries of one age improving on another. Sometimes unexpected
flashes of instruction were struck out by the fortuitous collision of happy incidents, or an
involuntary concurrence of ideas, in which the philosopher to whom they happened had no other
merit than that of knowing their value, and transmitting, unclouded, to posterity, that light
which had been kindled by causes out of his power. The happiness of these casual illuminations
no man can promise to himself, because no endeavours can procure them; and therefore whatever
be our abilities or application, we must submit to learn from others what perhaps would have
lain hid for ever from human penetration, had not some remote inquiry brought it to view; as
treasures are thrown up by the ploughman and the digger in the rude exercise of their common
occupations. The man whose genius qualifies him for great undertakings, must at least be content
to learn from books the present state of human knowledge; that he may not ascribe to himself
the invention of arts generally known; weary his attention with experiments of which the event
has been long registered; and waste, in attempts which have already succeeded or miscarried,
that time which might have been spent with usefulness and honour upon new undertakings.

But, though the study of books is necessary, it is not sufficient to constitute literary eminence.
He that wishes to be counted among the benefactors of posterity, must add by his own toil to
the acquisitions of his ancestors, and secure his memory from neglect by some valuable improvement.
This can only be effected by looking out upon the wastes of the intellectual world, and extending
the power of learning over regions yet undisciplined and barbarous; or by surveying more exactly
our ancient dominions, and driving ignorance from the fortresses and retreats where she skulks
undetected and undisturbed. Every science has its difficulties, which yet call for solution
before we attempt new systems of knowledge; as every country has its forests and marshes, which
it would be wise to cultivate and drain, before distant colonies are projected as a necessary
discharge of the exuberance of inhabitants.

No man ever yet became great by imitation. Whatever hopes for the veneration of mankind must
have invention in the design or the execution; either the effect must itself be new, or the
means by which it is produced. Either truths hitherto unknown must be discovered, or those
which are already known enforced by stronger evidence, facilitated by clearer method, or elucidated
by brighter illustrations.

Fame cannot spread wide or endure long that is not rooted in nature, and matured by art. That
which hopes to resist the blast of malignity, and stand firm against the attacks of time, must
contain in itself some original principle of growth. The reputation which arises from the detail
or transposition of borrowed sentiments, may spread for awhile, like ivy on the rind of antiquity,
but will be torn away by accident or contempt, and suffered to rot unheeded on the ground.

No. 155. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1751.

  --Steriles transmisimus annos,
  Haec aevi mihi prima dies, haec limina vitae. STAT. i. 362.

  --Our barren years are past;
  Be this of life the first, of sloth the last. ELPHINSTON.

No weakness of the human mind has more frequently incurred animadversion, than the negligence
with which men overlook their own faults, however flagrant, and the easiness with which they
pardon them, however frequently repeated.

It seems generally believed, that as the eye cannot see itself, the mind has no faculties by
which it can contemplate its own state, and that therefore we have not means of becoming acquainted
with our real characters; an opinion which, like innumerable other postulates, an inquirer
finds himself inclined to admit upon very little evidence, because it affords a ready solution
of many difficulties. It will explain why the greatest abilities frequently fail to promote
the happiness of those who possess them; why those who can distinguish with the utmost nicety
the boundaries of vice and virtue, suffer them to be confounded in their own conduct; why the
active and vigilant resign their affairs implicitly to the management of others; and why the
cautious and fearful make hourly approaches towards ruin, without one sigh of solicitude or
struggle for escape.

When a position teems thus with commodious consequences, who can without regret confess it
to be false? Yet it is certain that declaimers have indulged a disposition to describe the
dominion of the passions as extended beyond the limits that nature assigned. Self-love is often
rather arrogant than blind; it does not hide our faults from ourselves, but persuades us that
they escape the notice of others, and disposes us to resent censures lest we should confess
them to be just. We are secretly conscious of defects and vices, which we hope to conceal from
the publick eye, and please ourselves with innumerable impostures, by which, in reality, nobody
is deceived.

In proof of the dimness of our internal sight, or the general inability of man to determine
rightly concerning his own character, it is common to urge the success of the most absurd and
incredible flattery, and the resentment always raised by advice, however soft, benevolent,
and reasonable. But flattery, if its operation be nearly examined, will be found to owe its
acceptance, not to our ignorance, but knowledge of our failures, and to delight us rather as
it consoles our wants than displays our possessions. He that shall solicit the favour of his
patron by praising him for qualities which he can find in himself, will be defeated by the
more daring panegyrist who enriches him with adscititious excellence. Just praise is only a
debt, but flattery is a present. The acknowledgment of those virtues on which conscience congratulates
us, is a tribute that we can at any time exact with confidence; but the celebration of those
which we only feign, or desire without any vigorous endeavours to attain them, is received
as a confession of sovereignty over regions never conquered, as a favourable decision of disputable
claims, and is more welcome as it is more gratuitous.

Advice is offensive, not because it lays us open to unexpected regret, or convicts us of any
fault which had escaped our notice, but because it shews us that we are known to others as
well as to ourselves; and the officious monitor is persecuted with hatred, not because his
accusation is false, but because he assumes that superiority which we are not willing to grant
him, and has dared to detect what we desired to conceal.

For this reason advice is commonly ineffectual. If those who follow the call of their desires,
without inquiry whither they are going, had deviated ignorantly from the paths of wisdom, and
were rushing upon dangers unforeseen, they would readily listen to information that recals
them from their errours, and catch the first alarm by which destruction or infamy is denounced.
Few that wander in the wrong way mistake it for the right, they only find it more smooth and
flowery, and indulge their own choice rather than approve it: therefore few are persuaded to
quit it by admonition or reproof, since it impresses no new conviction, nor confers any powers
of action or resistance. He that is gravely informed how soon profusion will annihilate his
fortune, hears with little advantage what he knew before, and catches at the next occasion
of expense, because advice has no force to suppress his vanity. He that is told how certainly
intemperance will hurry him to the grave, runs with his usual speed to a new course of luxury,
because his reason is not invigorated, nor his appetite weakened.

The mischief of flattery is, not that it persuades any man that he is what he is not, but that
it suppresses the influence of honest ambition, by raising an opinion that honour may be gained
without the toil of merit; and the benefit of advice arises commonly not from any new light
imparted to the mind, but from the discovery which it affords of the publick suffrages. He
that could withstand conscience is frighted at infamy, and shame prevails when reason is defeated.

As we all know our own faults, and know them commonly with many aggravations which human perspicacity
cannot discover, there is, perhaps, no man, however hardened by impudence or dissipated by
levity, sheltered by hypocrisy or blasted by disgrace, who does not intend some time to review
his conduct, and to regulate the remainder of his life by the laws of virtue. New temptations
indeed attack him, new invitations are offered by pleasure and interest, and the hour of reformation
is always delayed; every delay gives vice another opportunity of fortifying itself by habit;
and the change of manners, though sincerely intended and rationally planned, is referred to
the time when some craving passion shall be fully gratified, or some powerful allurement cease
its importunity.

Thus procrastination is accumulated on procrastination, and one impediment succeeds another,
till age shatters our resolution, or death intercepts the project of amendment. Such is often
the end of salutary purposes, after they have long delighted the imagination, and appeased
that disquiet which every mind feels from known misconduct, when the attention is not diverted
by business or by pleasure.

Nothing surely can be more unworthy of a reasonable nature, than to continue in a state so
opposite to real happiness, as that all the peace of solitude, and felicity of meditation,
must arise from resolutions of forsaking it. Yet the world will often afford examples of men,
who pass months and years in a continual war with their own convictions, and are daily dragged
by habit, or betrayed by passion, into practices which they closed and opened their eyes with
purposes to avoid; purposes which, though settled on conviction, the first impulse of momentary
desire totally overthrows.

The influence of custom is indeed such, that to conquer it will require the utmost efforts
of fortitude and virtue; nor can I think any man more worthy of veneration and renown, than
those who have burst the shackles of habitual vice. This victory, however, has different degrees
of glory as of difficulty; it is more, heroick as the objects of guilty gratification are more
familiar, and the recurrence of solicitation more frequent. He that, from experience of the
folly of ambition, resigns his offices, may set himself free at once from temptation to squander
his life in courts, because he cannot regain his former station. He who is enslaved by an amorous
passion, may quit his tyrant in disgust, and absence will, without the help of reason, overcome
by degrees the desire of returning. But those appetites to which every place affords their
proper object, and which require no preparatory measures or gradual advances, are more tenaciously
adhesive; the wish is so near the enjoyment, that compliance often precedes consideration,
and, before the powers of reason can be summoned, the time for employing them is past.

Indolence is therefore one of the vices from which those whom it once infects are seldom reformed.
Every other species of luxury operates upon some appetite that is quickly satiated, and requires
some concurrence of art or accident which every place will not supply; but the desire of ease
acts equally at all hours, and the longer it is indulged is the more increased. To do nothing
is in every man's power; we can never want an opportunity of omitting duties. Aen.

Of this vice, as of all others, every man who indulges it is conscious: we all know our own
state, if we could be induced to consider it, and it might perhaps be useful to the conquest
of all these ensnarers of the mind, if, at certain stated days, life was reviewed. Many things
necessary are omitted, because we vainly imagine that they may be always performed; and what
cannot be done without pain will for ever be delayed, if the time of doing it be left unsettled.
No corruption is great but by long negligence, which can scarcely prevail in a mind regularly
and frequently awakened by periodical remorse. He that thus breaks his life into parts, will
find in himself a desire to distinguish every stage of his existence by some improvement, and
delight himself with the approach of the day of recollection, as of the time which is to begin
a new series of virtue and felicity.

No. 156. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1751.

  Nunquam aliud Natura, aliud Sapientia dicit. Juv. Sat. xiv. 321.

  For Wisdom ever echoes Nature's voice.

Every government, say the politicians, is perpetually degenerating towards corruption, from
which it must be rescued at certain periods by the resuscitation of its first principles, and
the re-establishment of its original constitution. Every animal body, according to the methodick
physicians, is, by the predominance of some exuberant quality, continually declining towards
disease and death, which must be obviated by a seasonable reduction of the peccant humour to
the just equipoise which health requires.

In the same manner the studies of mankind, all at least which, not being subject to rigorous
demonstration, admit the influence of fancy and caprice, are perpetually tending to errour
and confusion. Of the great principles of truth which the first speculatists discovered, the
simplicity is embarrassed by ambitious additions, or the evidence obscured by inaccurate argumentation;
and as they descend from one succession of writers to another, like light transmitted from
room to room, they lose their strength and splendour, and fade at last in total evanescence.

The systems of learning therefore must be sometimes reviewed, complications analyzed into principles,
and knowledge disentangled from opinion. It is not always possible, without a close inspection,
to separate the genuine shoots of consequential reasoning, which grow out of some radical postulate,
from the branches which art has ingrafted on it. The accidental prescriptions of authority,
when time has procured them veneration, are often confounded with the laws of nature, and those
rules are supposed coëval with reason, of which the first rise cannot be discovered.

Criticism has sometimes permitted fancy to dictate the laws by which fancy ought to be restrained,
and fallacy to perplex the principles by which fallacy is to be detected; her superintendence
of others has betrayed her to negligence of herself; and, like the ancient Scythians, by extending
her conquests over distant regions, she has left her throne vacant to her slaves.

Among the laws of which the desire of extending authority, or ardour of promoting knowledge,
has prompted the prescription, all which writers have received, had not the same original right
to our regard. Some are to be considered as fundamental and indispensable, others only as useful
and convenient; some as dictated by reason and necessity, others as enacted by despotick antiquity;
some as invincibly supported by their conformity to the order of nature and operations of the
intellect; others as formed by accident, or instituted by example, and therefore always liable
to dispute and alteration.

That many rules have been advanced without consulting nature or reason, we cannot but suspect,
when we find it peremptorily decreed by the ancient masters, that only three speaking personages
should appear at once upon the stage; a law, which, as the variety and intricacy of modern
plays has made it impossible to be observed, we now violate without scruple, and, as experience
proves, without inconvenience.

The original of this precept was merely accidental. Tragedy was a monody, or solitary song
in honour of Bacchus, improved afterwards into a dialogue by the addition of another speaker;
but the ancients, remembering that the tragedy was at first pronounced only by one, durst not
for some time venture beyond two; at last, when custom and impunity had made them daring, they
extended their liberty to the admission of three, but restrained themselves by a critical edict
from further exorbitance.

By what accident the number of acts was limited to five, I know not that any author has informed
us; but certainly it is not determined by any necessity arising either from the nature of action,
or propriety of exhibition. An act is only the representation of such a part of the business
of the play as proceeds in an unbroken tenour, or without any intermediate pause. Nothing is
more evident than that of every real, and by consequence of every dramatick action, the intervals
may be more or fewer than five; and indeed the rule is upon the English stage every day broken
in effect, without any other mischief than that which arises from an absurd endeavour to observe
it in appearance. Whenever the scene is shifted the act ceases, since some time is necessarily
supposed to elapse while the personages of the drama change their place.

With no greater right to our obedience have the criticks confined the dramatick action to a
certain number of hours. Probability requires that the time of action should approach somewhat
nearly to that of exhibition, and those plays will always be thought most happily conducted
which crowd the greatest, variety into the least space. But since it will frequently happen
that some delusion must be admitted, I know not where the limits of imagination can be fixed.
It is rarely observed that minds, not prepossessed by mechanical criticism, feel any offence
from the extension of the intervals between the acts; nor can I conceive it absurd or impossible,
that he who can multiply three hours into twelve or twenty-four, might imagine with equal ease
a greater number.

I know not whether he that professes to regard no other laws than those of nature, will not
be inclined to receive tragi-comedy to his protection, whom, however generally condemned, her
own laurels have hitherto shaded from the fulminations of criticism. For what is there in the
mingled drama which impartial reason can condemn? The connexion of important with trivial incidents,
since it is not only common but perpetual in the world, may surely be allowed upon the stage,
which pretends only to be the mirror of life. The impropriety of suppressing passions before
we have raised them to the intended agitation, and of diverting the expectation from an event
which we keep suspended only to raise it, may be speciously urged. But will not experience
shew this objection to be rather subtle than just? Is it not certain that the tragick and comick
affections have been moved alternately with equal force, and that no plays have oftener filled
the eye with tears, and the breast with palpitation, than those which are variegated with interludes
of mirth?

I do not however think it safe to judge of works of genius merely by the event. The resistless
vicissitudes of the heart, this alternate prevalence of merriment and solemnity, may sometimes
be more properly ascribed to the vigour of the writer than the justness of the design: and,
instead of vindicating tragi-comedy by the success of Shakspeare, we ought, perhaps, to pay
new honours to that transcendent and unbounded genius that could preside over the passions
in sport; who, to actuate the affections, needed not the slow gradation of common means, but
could fill the heart with instantaneous jollity or sorrow, and vary our disposition as he changed
his scenes. Perhaps the effects even of Shakspeare's poetry might have been yet greater, had
he not counteracted himself; and we might have been more interested in the distresses of his
heroes, had we not been so frequently diverted by the jokes of his buffoons.

There are other rules more fixed and obligatory. It is necessary that of every play the chief
action should be single; for since a play represents some transaction, through its regular
maturation to its final event, two actions equally important must evidently constitute two plays.

As the design of tragedy is to instruct by moving the passions, it must always have a hero,
a personage apparently and incontestably superior to the rest, upon whom the attention may
be fixed, and the anxiety suspended. For though, of two persons opposing each other with equal
abilities and equal virtue, the auditor will inevitably, in time, choose his favourite, yet
as that choice must be without any cogency of conviction, the hopes or fears which it raises
will be faint and languid. Of two heroes acting in confederacy against a common enemy, the
virtues or dangers will give little emotion, because each claims our concern with the same
right, and the heart lies at rest between equal motives.

It ought to be the first endeavour of a writer to distinguish nature from custom; or that which
is established because it is right, from that which is right only because it is established;
that he may neither violate essential principles by a desire of novelty, nor debar himself
from the attainment of beauties within his view, by a needless fear of breaking rules which
no literary dictator had authority to enact.

No. 157. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1751.

  [Greek:--Oi aidos
  Ginetai ae t' andras mega sinetai aed' oninaesi.]
  HOM. Il. [Greek: O.] 44.

  Shame greatly hurts or greatly helps mankind. ELPHINSTON.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

Though one of your correspondents has presumed to mention with some contempt that presence
of attention and easiness of address, which the polite have long agreed to celebrate and esteem,
yet I cannot be persuaded to think them unworthy of regard or cultivation; but am inclined
to believe that, as we seldom value rightly what we have never known the misery of wanting,
his judgment has been vitiated by his happiness; and that a natural exuberance of assurance
has hindered him from discovering its excellence and use.

This felicity, whether bestowed by constitution, or obtained by early habitudes, I can scarcely
contemplate without envy. I was bred under a man of learning in the country, who inculcated
nothing but the dignity of knowledge, and the happiness of virtue. By frequency of admonition,
and confidence of assertion, he prevailed upon me to believe, that the splendour of literature
would always attract reverence, if not darkened by corruption. I therefore pursued my studies
with incessant industry, and avoided every thing which I had been taught to consider either
as vicious or tending to vice, because I regarded guilt and reproach as inseparably united,
and thought a tainted reputation the greatest calamity.

At the university, I found no reason for changing my opinion; for though many among my fellow-students
took the opportunity of a more remiss discipline to gratify their passions; yet virtue preserved
her natural superiority, and those who ventured to neglect, were not suffered to insult her.
The ambition of petty accomplishments found its way into the receptacles of learning, but was
observed to seize commonly on those who either neglected the sciences or could not attain them;
and I was therefore confirmed in the doctrines of my old master, and thought nothing worthy
of my care but the means of gaining or imparting knowledge.

This purity of manners, and intenseness of application, soon extended my renown, and I was
applauded by those, whose opinion I then thought unlikely to deceive me, as a young man that
gave uncommon hopes of future eminence. My performances in time reached my native province,
and my relations congratulated themselves upon the new honours that were added to their family.

I returned home covered with academical laurels, and fraught with criticism and philosophy.
The wit and the scholar excited curiosity, and my acquaintance was solicited by innumerable
invitations. To please will always be the wish of benevolence, to be admired must be the constant
aim of ambition; and I therefore considered myself as about to receive the reward of my honest
labours, and to find the efficacy of learning and of virtue.

The third day after my arrival I dined at the house of a gentleman who had summoned a multitude
of his friends to the annual celebration of his wedding-day. I set forward with great exultation,
and thought myself happy that I had an opportunity of displaying my knowledge to so numerous
an assembly. I felt no sense of my own insufficiency, till, going up stairs to the dining-room,
I heard the mingled roar of obstreperous merriment. I was, however, disgusted rather than terrified,
and went forward without dejection. The whole company rose at my entrance; but when I saw so
many eyes fixed at once upon me, I was blasted with a sudden imbecility, I was quelled by some
nameless power which I found impossible to be resisted. My sight was dazzled, my cheeks glowed,
my perceptions were confounded; I was harassed by the multitude of eager salutations, and returned
the common civilities with hesitation and impropriety; the sense of my own blunders increased
my confusion, and, before the exchange of ceremonies allowed me to sit down, I was ready to
sink under the oppression of surprise; my voice grew weak, and my knees trembled.

The assembly then resumed their places, and I sat with my eyes fixed upon the ground. To the
questions of curiosity, or the appeals of complaisance, I could seldom answer but with negative
monosyllables, or professions of ignorance; for the subjects on which they conversed, were
such as are seldom discussed in books, and were therefore out of my range of knowledge. At
length an old clergyman, who rightly conjectured the reason of my conciseness, relieved me
by some questions about the present state of natural knowledge, and engaged me, by an appearance
of doubt and opposition, in the explication and defence of the Newtonian philosophy.

The consciousness of my own abilities roused me from depression, and long familiarity with
my subject enabled me to discourse with ease and volubility; but, however I might please myself,
I found very little added by my demonstrations to the satisfaction of the company; and my antagonist,
who knew the laws of conversation too well to detain their attention long upon an unpleasing
topick, after he had commended my acuteness and comprehension, dismissed the controversy, and
resigned me to my former insignificance and perplexity.

After dinner, I received from the ladies, who had heard that I was a wit, an invitation to
the tea-table. I congratulated myself upon an opportunity to escape from the company, whose
gaiety began to be tumultuous, and among whom several hints had been dropped of the uselessness
of universities, the folly of book-learning, and the awkwardness of scholars. To the ladies,
therefore, I flew, as to a refuge from clamour, insult, and rusticity; but found my heart sink
as I approached their apartment, and was again disconcerted by the ceremonies of entrance,
and confounded by the necessity of encountering so many eyes at once.

When I sat down I considered that, something pretty was always said to ladies, and resolved
to recover my credit by some elegant observation or graceful compliment. I applied myself to
the recollection of all that I had read or heard in praise of beauty, and endeavoured to accommodate
some classical compliment to the present occasion. I sunk into profound meditation, revolved
the characters of the heroines of old, considered whatever the poets have sung in their praise,
and, after having borrowed and invented, chosen and rejected a thousand sentiments, which,
if I had uttered them, would not have been understood, I was awakened from my dream of learned
gallantry, by the servant who distributed the tea.

There are not many situations more incessantly uneasy than that in which the man is placed
who is watching an opportunity to speak, without courage to take it when it is offered, and
who, though he resolves to give a specimen of his abilities, always finds some reason or other
for delaying it to the next minute. I was ashamed of silence, yet could find nothing to say
of elegance or importance equal to my wishes. The ladies, afraid of my learning, thought themselves
not qualified to propose any subject of prattle to a man so famous for dispute, and there was
nothing on either side but impatience and vexation.

In this conflict of shame, as I was re-assembling my scattered sentiments, and, resolving to
force my imagination to some sprightly sally, had just found a very happy compliment, by too
much attention to my own meditations, I suffered the saucer to drop from my hand. The cup was
broken, the lap-dog was scalded, a brocaded petticoat was stained, and the whole assembly was
thrown into disorder. I now considered all hopes of reputation at an end, and while they were
consoling and assisting one another, stole away in silence.

The misadventures of this unhappy day are not yet at an end; I am afraid of meeting the meanest
of them that triumphed over me in this state of stupidity and contempt, and feel the same terrours
encroaching upon my heart at the sight of those who have once impressed them. Shame, above
any other passion, propagates itself. Before those who have seen me confused, I can never appear
without new confusion, and the remembrance of the weakness which I formerly discovered, hinders
me from acting or speaking with my natural force.

But is this misery, Mr. Rambler, never to cease; have I spent my life in study only to become
the sport of the ignorant, and debarred myself from all the common enjoyments of youth to collect
ideas which must sleep in silence, and form opinions which I must not divulge? Inform me, dear
Sir, by what means I may rescue my faculties from these shackles of cowardice, how I may rise
to a level with my fellow-beings, recall myself from this langour of involuntary subjection
to the free exertion of my intellects, and add to the power of reasoning the liberty of speech.

I am, Sir, &c.

VERECUNDULUS.

No. 158. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1751.

  Grammatici certunt, et adhuc sub judice lis est. HOR. Ar. Poet. 78.

  --Criticks yet contend,
  And of their vain disputings find no end. FRANCIS.

Criticism, though dignified from the earliest ages by the labours of men eminent for knowledge
and sagacity, and, since the revival of polite literature, the favourite study of European
scholars, has not yet attained the certainty and stability of science. The rules hitherto received
are seldom drawn from any settled principle or self-evident postulate, or adapted to the natural
and invariable constitution of things; but will be found, upon examination, the arbitrary edicts
of legislators, authorised only by themselves, who, out of various means by which the same
end may be attained, selected such as happened to occur to their own reflection, and then,
by a law which idleness and timidity were too willing to obey, prohibited new experiments of
wit, restrained fancy from the indulgence of her innate inclination to hazard and adventure,
and condemned all future flights of genius to pursue the path of the Meonian eagle.

This authority may be more justly opposed, as it is apparently derived from them whom they
endeavour to control; for we owe few of the rules of writing to the acuteness of criticks,
who have generally no other merit than that, having read the works of great authors with attention,
they have observed the arrangement of their matter, or the graces of their expression, and
then expected honour and reverence for precepts which they never could have invented; so that
practice has introduced rules, rather than rules have directed practice.

For this reason the laws of every species of writing have been settled by the ideas of him
who first raised it to reputation, without inquiry whether his performances were not yet susceptible
of improvement. The excellencies and faults of celebrated writers have been equally recommended
to posterity; and, so far has blind reverence prevailed, that even the number of their books
has been thought worthy of imitation.

The imagination of the first authors of lyrick poetry was vehement and rapid, and their knowledge
various and extensive. Living in an age when science had been little cultivated, and when the
minds of their auditors, not being accustomed to accurate inspection, were easily dazzled by
glaring ideas, they applied themselves to instruct, rather by short sentences and striking
thoughts, than by regular argumentation; and, finding attention more successfully excited by
sudden sallies and unexpected exclamations, than by the more artful and placid beauties of
methodical deduction, they loosed their genius to its own course, passed from one sentiment
to another without expressing the intermediate ideas, and roved at large over the ideal world
with such lightness and agility, that their footsteps are scarcely to be traced.

From this accidental peculiarity of the ancient writers the criticks deduce the rules of lyrick
poetry, which they have set free from all the laws by which other compositions are confined,
and allow to neglect the niceties of transition, to start into remote digressions, and to wander
without restraint from one scene of imagery to another.

A writer of later times has, by the vivacity of his essays, reconciled mankind to the same
licentiousness in short dissertations; and he therefore who wants skill to form a plan, or
diligence to pursue it, needs only entitle his performance an essay, to acquire the right of
heaping together the collections of half his life without order, coherence, or propriety.

In writing, as in life, faults are endured without disgust when they are associated with transcendent
merit, and may be sometimes recommended to weak judgments by the lustre which they obtain from
their union with excellence; but it is the business of those who presume to superintend the
taste or morals of mankind, to separate delusive combinations and distinguish that which may
be praised from that which can only be excused. As vices never promote happiness, though, when
overpowered by more active and more numerous virtues, they cannot totally destroy it; so confusion
and irregularity produce no beauty, though they cannot always obstruct the brightness of genius
and learning. To proceed from one truth to another, and connect distant propositions by regular
consequences, is the great prerogative of man. Independent and unconnected sentiments flashing
upon the mind in quick succession, may, for a time, delight by their novelty, but they differ
from systematical reasoning, as single notes from harmony, as glances of lightning from the
radiance of the sun.

When rules are thus drawn, rather from precedents than reason, there is danger not only from
the faults of an author, but from the errours of those who criticise his works; since they
may often mislead their pupils by false representations, as the Ciceronians of the sixteenth
century were betrayed into barbarisms by corrupt copies of their darling writer.

It is established at present, that the proemial lines of a poem, in which the general subject
is proposed, must be void of glitter and embellishment. "The first lines of Paradise Lost,"
says Addison, "are perhaps as plain, simple, and unadorned, as any of the whole poem, in which
particular the author has conformed himself to the example of Homer, and the precept of Horace."

This observation seems to have been made by an implicit adoption of the common opinion, without
consideration either of the precept or example. Had Horace been consulted, he would have been
found to direct only what should be comprised in the proposition, not how it should be expressed;
and to have commended Homer in opposition to a meaner poet, not for the gradual elevation of
his diction, but the judicious expansion of his plan; for displaying unpromised events, not
for producing unexpected elegancies.

  --Specivsa dehinc miracula prouiat;
  Antiphaten, Scyllamque, et cum Cyclope Charybdim.  Hon. Ar. Poet. 146.

  But from a cloud of smoke he breaks to light,
  And pours his specious miracles to sight;
  Antiphates his hideous feast devours,
  Charybdis barks, and Polyphemus roars.     FRANCIS.

If the exordial verses of Homer be compared with the rest of the poem, they will not appear
remarkable for plainness or simplicity, but rather eminently adorned and illuminated:

  [Greek:
  Andra moi ennepe, Mousa, polutropon, os mala polla
  Plagchthae, epei Troiaes ieron ptoliethron eperse;
  Pollon d anthropon iden astea, kai noon egno;
  Polla d og en pontps pathen algea on kata thumon,
  Arnumenos aen te psuchaen kai noston etairon;
  All oud os etarous errusato, iemenos per;
  Auton gar spheteraesin atasthaliaesin olonto.
  Naepioi, oi kata bous uperionos Aeelioio
  Aesthion; autar o toisin apheileto vostimon aemao;
  Ton amothen ge, thea, thugater Dios, eipe kai eamin.]

  The man, for wisdom's various arts renown'd,
  Long exercised in woes, O muse! resound.
  Who, when his arms had wrought the destin'd fall
  Of sacred Troy, and raz'd her heav'n-built wall,
  Wandering from clime to clime, observant stray'd,
  The manners noted, and their states survey'd.
  On stormy seas unnumber'd toils he bore,
  Safe with his friends to gain his natal shore:
  Vain toils! their impious folly dar'd to prey
  On herds devoted to the god of day;
  The god vindictive doom'd them never more
  (Ah! men unbless'd) to touch that natal shore.
  O snatch some portion of these acts from fate,
  Celestial muse! and to our world relate.   POPE.

The first verses of the Iliad are in like manner particularly splendid, and the proposition
of the Aeneid closes with dignity and magnificence not often to be found even in the poetry
of Virgil.

The intent of the introduction is to raise expectation, and suspend it; something therefore
must be discovered, and something concealed; and the poet, while the fertility of his invention
is yet unknown, may properly recommend himself by the grace of his language.

He that reveals too much, or promises too little; he that never irritates the intellectual
appetite, or that immediately satiates it, equally defeats his own purpose. It is necessary
to the pleasure of the reader, that the events should not be anticipated, and how then can
his attention be invited, but by grandeur of expression?

No. 159. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1751.

  Sunt verba et voces, quibus hunc lenire dolorem
  Possis, et magnuum morbi deponere partem. HOR. Ep. Lib. i. 34.

  The power of words, and soothing sounds, appease
  The raging pain, and lessen the disease. FRANCIS.

The imbecility with which Verecundulus complains that the presence of a numerous assembly freezes
his faculties, is particularly incident to the studious part of mankind, whose education necessarily
secludes them in their earlier years from mingled converse, till, at their dismission from
schools and academies, they plunge at once into the tumult of the world, and, coming forth
from the gloom of solitude, are overpowered by the blaze of publick life.

It is, perhaps, kindly provided by nature, that as the feathers and strength of a bird grow
together, and her wings are not completed till she is able to fly, so some proportion should
be preserved in the human kind between judgment and courage; the precipitation of inexperience
is therefore restrained by shame, and we remain shackled by timidity, till we have learned
to speak and act with propriety.  I believe few can review the days of their youth without
recollecting temptations, which shame, rather than virtue, enabled them to resist; and opinions
which, however erroneous in their principles, and dangerous in their consequences, they have
panted to advance at the hazard of contempt and hatred, when they found themselves irresistibly
depressed by a languid anxiety, which seized them at the moment of utterance, and still gathered
strength from their endeavours to resist it.

It generally happens that assurance keeps an even pace with ability, and the fear of miscarriage,
which hinders Our first attempts, is gradually dissipated as our skill advances towards certainty
of success. That bashfulness, therefore, which prevents disgrace, that short and temporary
shame which secures us from the danger of lasting reproach, cannot be properly counted among
our misfortunes.

Bashfulness, however it may incommode for a moment, scarcely ever produces evils of long continuance;
it may flush the cheek, flutter in the heart, deject the eyes, and enchain the tongue, but
its mischiefs soon pass off without remembrance. It may sometimes exclude pleasure, but seldom
opens any avenue to sorrow or remorse. It is observed somewhere that few have repented of having
forborne to speak.

To excite opposition, and inflame malevolence, is the unhappy privilege of courage made arrogant
by consciousness of strength. No man finds in himself any inclination to attack or oppose him
who confesses his superiority by blushing in his presence. Qualities exerted with apparent
fearfulness, receive applause from every voice, and support from every hand. Diffidence may
check resolution and obstruct performance, but compensates its embarrassments by more important
advantages; it conciliates the proud, and softens the severe, averts envy from excellence,
and censure from miscarriage.

It may indeed happen that knowledge and virtue remain too long congealed by this frigorifick
power, as the principles of vegetation are sometimes obstructed by lingering frosts. He that
enters late into a public station, though with all the abilities requisite to the discharge
of his duty, will find his powers at first impeded by a timidity which he himself knows to
be vicious, and must struggle long against dejection and reluctance, before he obtains the
full command of his own attention, and adds the gracefulness of ease to the dignity of merit.

For this disease of the mind I know not whether any remedies of much efficacy can be found.
To advise a man unaccustomed to the eyes of multitudes to mount a tribunal without perturbation,
to tell him whose life was passed in the shades of contemplation, that he must not be disconcerted
or perplexed in receiving and returning the compliments of a splendid assembly, is to advise
an inhabitant of Brasil or Sumatra not to shiver at an English winter, or him who has always
lived upon a plain to look from a precipice without emotion. It is to suppose custom instantaneously
controllable by reason, and to endeavour to communicate, by precept, that which only time and
habit can bestow.

He that hopes by philosophy and contemplation alone to fortify himself against that awe which
all, at their first appearance on the stage of life, must feel from the spectators, will, at
the hour of need, be mocked by his resolution; and I doubt whether the preservatives which
Plato relates Alcibiades to have received from Socrates, when he was about to speak in publick,
proved sufficient to secure him from the powerful fascination.

Yet, as the effects of time may by art and industry be accelerated or retarded, it cannot be
improper to consider how this troublesome instinct may be opposed when it exceeds its just
proportion, and instead of repressing petulance and temerity, silences eloquence, and debilitates
force; since, though it cannot be hoped that anxiety should be immediately dissipated, it may
be at least somewhat abated; and the passions will operate with less violence, when reason
rises against them, than while she either slumbers in neutrality, or, mistaking her interest,
lends them her assistance.

No cause more frequently produces bashfulness than too high an opinion of our own importance.
He that imagines an assembly filled with his merit, panting with expectation, and hushed with
attention, easily terrifies himself with the dread of disappointing them, and strains his imagination
in pursuit of something that may vindicate the veracity of fame, and shew that his reputation
was not gained by chance. He considers that what he shall say or do will never be forgotten;
that renown or infamy is suspended upon every syllable, and that nothing ought to fall from
him which will not bear the test of time. Under such solicitude, who can wonder that the mind
is overwhelmed, and, by struggling with attempts above her strength, quickly sinks into languishment
and despondency?

The most useful medicines are often unpleasing to the taste. Those who are oppressed by their
own reputation, will, perhaps, not be comforted by hearing that their cares are unnecessary.
But the truth is, that no man is much regarded by the rest of the world. He that considers
how little he dwells upon the condition of others, will learn how little the attention of others
is attracted by himself. While we see multitudes passing before us, of whom, perhaps, not one
appears to deserve our notice, or excite our sympathy, we should remember, that we likewise
are lost in the same throng; that the eye which happens to glance upon us is turned in a moment
on him that follows us, and that the utmost which we can reasonably hope or fear is, to fill
a vacant hour with prattle, and be forgotten.

No. 160. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1751

  --Inter se convenit ursis. JUV. Sat. xv. 164.

  Beasts of each kind their fellows spare;
  Bear lives in amity with bear.

"The world," says Locke, "has people of all sorts." As in the general hurry produced by the
superfluities of some, and necessities of others, no man needs to stand still for want of employment,
so in the innumerable gradations of ability, and endless varieties of study and inclination,
no employment can be vacant for want of a man qualified to discharge it.

Such is probably the natural state of the universe; but it is so much deformed by interest
and passion, that the benefit of this adaptation of men to things is not always perceived.
The folly or indigence of those who set their services to sale, inclines them to boast of qualifications
which they do not possess, and attempt business which they do not understand; and they who
have the power of assigning to others the task of life, are seldom honest or seldom happy in
their nomination. Patrons are corrupted by avarice, cheated by credulity, or overpowered by
resistless solicitation. They are sometimes too strongly influenced by honest prejudices of
friendship, or the prevalence of virtuous compassion. For, whatever cool reason may direct,
it is not easy for a man of tender and scrupulous goodness to overlook the immediate effect
of his own actions, by turning his eyes upon remoter consequences, and to do that which must
give present pain, for the sake of obviating evil yet unfelt, or securing advantage in time
to come. What is distant is in itself obscure, and, when we have no wish to see it, easily
escapes our notice, or takes such a form as desire or imagination bestows upon it.

Every man might, for the same reason, in the multitudes that swarm about him, find some kindred
mind with which he could unite in confidence and friendship; yet we see many straggling single
about the world, unhappy for want of an associate, and pining with the necessity of confining
their sentiments to their own bosoms.

This inconvenience arises, in like manner, from struggles of the will against the understanding.
It is not often difficult to find a suitable companion, if every man would be content with
such as he is qualified to please. But if vanity tempts him to forsake his rank, and post himself
among those with whom no common interest or mutual pleasure can ever unite him, he must always
live in a state of unsocial separation, without tenderness and without trust.

There are many natures which can never approach within a certain distance, and which, when
any irregular motive impels them towards contact, seem to start back from each other by some
invincible repulsion. There are others which immediately cohere whenever they come into the
reach of mutual attraction, and with very little formality of preparation mingle intimately
as soon as they meet. Every man, whom either business or curiosity has thrown at large into
the world, will recollect many instances of fondness and dislike, which have forced themselves
upon him without the intervention of his judgment; of dispositions to court some and avoid
others, when he could assign no reason for the preference, or none adequate to the violence
of his passions; of influence that acted instantaneously upon his mind, and which no arguments
or persuasions could ever overcome.

Among those with whom time and intercourse have made us familiar, we feel our affections divided
in different proportions without much regard to moral or intellectual merit. Every man knows
some whom he cannot induce himself to trust, though he has no reason to suspect that they would
betray him; those to whom he cannot complain, though he never observed them to want compassion;
those in whose presence he never can be gay, though excited by invitations to mirth and freedom;
and those from whom he cannot be content to receive instruction, though they never insulted
his ignorance by contempt or ostentation.

That much regard is to be had to those instincts of kindness and dislike, or that reason should
blindly follow them, I am far from intending to inculcate: it is very certain, that by indulgence
we may give them strength which they have not from nature, and almost every example of ingratitude
and treachery proves, that by obeying them we may commit our happiness to those who are very
unworthy of so great a trust. But it may deserve to be remarked, that since few contend much
with their inclinations, it is generally vain to solicit the good-will of those whom we perceive
thus involuntarily alienated from us; neither knowledge nor virtue will reconcile antipathy,
and though officiousness may be for a time admitted, and diligence applauded, they will at
last be dismissed with coldness, or discouraged by neglect.

Some have indeed an occult power of stealing upon the affections, of exciting universal benevolence,
and disposing every heart to fondness and friendship. But this is a felicity granted only to
the favourites of nature. The greater part of mankind find a different reception from different
dispositions; they sometimes obtain unexpected caresses from those whom they never flattered
with uncommon regard, and sometimes exhaust all their arts of pleasing without effect. To these
it is necessary to look round, and attempt every breast in which they find virtue sufficient
for the foundation of friendship; to enter into the crowd, and try whom chance will offer to
their notice, till they fix on some temper congenial to their own, as the magnet rolled in
the dust collects the fragments of its kindred metal from a thousand particles of other substances.

Every man must have remarked the facility with which the kindness of others is sometimes gained
by those to whom he never could have imparted his own. We are by our occupations, education,
and habits of life, divided almost into different species, which regard one another, for the
most part, with scorn and malignity. Each of these classes of the human race has desires, fears,
and conversation, vexations and merriment peculiar to itself; cares which another cannot feel;
pleasures which he cannot partake; and modes of expressing every sensation which he cannot
understand. That frolick which shakes one man with laughter, will convulse another with indignation;
the strain of jocularity which in one place obtains treats and patronage, would in another
be heard with indifference, and in a third with abhorrence.

To raise esteem we must benefit others, to procure love we must please them. Aristotle observes,
that old men do not readily form friendships, because they are not easily susceptible of pleasure.
He that can contribute to the hilarity of the vacant hour, or partake with equal gust the favourite
amusement; he whose mind is employed on the same objects, and who therefore never harasses
the understanding with unaccustomed ideas, will be welcomed with ardour, and left with regret,
unless he destroys those recommendations by faults with which peace and security cannot consist.

It were happy, if, in forming friendships, virtue could concur with pleasure; but the greatest
part of human gratifications approach so nearly to vice, that few who make the delight of others
their rule of conduct, can avoid disingenuous compliances; yet certainly he that suffers himself
to be driven or allured from virtue, mistakes his own interest, since he gains succour by means,
for which his friend, if ever he becomes wise, must scorn him, and for which at last he must
scorn himself.

No. 161. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1751.

  [Greek: Oiae gar phullon geneae, toiaede kai Andron.]
  HOM. Il. [Greek: T.]

  Frail as the leaves that quiver on the sprays,
  Like them man flourishes, like them decays.

MR. RAMBLER.

SIR,

You have formerly observed that curiosity often terminates in barren knowledge, and that the
mind is prompted to study and inquiry rather by the uneasiness of ignorance, than the hope
of profit. Nothing can be of less importance to any present interest, than the fortune of those
who have been long lost in the grave, and from whom nothing now can be hoped or feared. Yet,
to rouse the zeal of a true antiquary, little more is necessary than to mention a name which
mankind have conspired to forget; he will make his way to remote scenes of action through obscurity
and contradiction, as Tully sought amidst bushes and brambles the tomb of Archimedes.

It is not easy to discover how it concerns him that gathers the produce, or receives the rent
of an estate, to know through what families the land has passed, who is registered in the Conqueror's
survey as its possessor, how often it has been forfeited by treason, or how often sold by prodigality.
The power or wealth of the present inhabitants of a country cannot be much increased by an
inquiry after the names of those barbarians, who destroyed one another twenty centuries ago,
in contests for the shelter of woods, or convenience of pasturage. Yet we see that no man can
be at rest in the enjoyment of a new purchase till he has learned the history of his grounds
from the ancient inhabitants of the parish, and that no nation omits to record the actions
of their ancestors, however bloody, savage, and rapacious.

The same disposition, as different opportunities call it forth, discovers itself in great or
little things. I have always thought it unworthy of a wise man to slumber in total inactivity,
only because he happens to have no employment equal to his ambition or genius; it is therefore
my custom to apply my attention to the objects before me, and as I cannot think any place wholly
unworthy of notice that affords a habitation to a man of letters, I have collected the history
and antiquities of the several garrets in which I have resided.

  Quantulacunque estis, vos ego magna voco.

  How small to others, but how great to me!

Many of these narratives my industry has been able to extend to a considerable length; but
the woman with whom I now lodge has lived only eighteen months in the house, and can give no
account of its ancient revolutions; the plaisterer having, at her entrance, obliterated, by
his white-wash, all the smoky memorials which former tenants had left upon the ceiling, and
perhaps drawn the veil of oblivion over politicians, philosophers, and poets.

When I first, cheapened my lodgings, the landlady told me, that she hoped I was not an author,
for the lodgers on the first floor had stipulated that the upper rooms should not be occupied
by a noisy trade. I very readily promised to give no disturbance to her family, and soon despatched
a bargain on the usual terms.

I had not slept many nights in my new apartment before I began to inquire after my predecessors,
and found my landlady, whose imagination is filled chiefly with her own affairs, very ready
to give me information.

Curiosity, like all other desires, produces pain as wel as pleasure. Before she began her narrative,
I had heated my head with expectations of adventures and discoveries, of elegance in disguise,
and learning in distress; and was somewhat mortified when I heard that the first tenant was
a tailor, of whom nothing was remembered but that he complained of his room for want of light;
and, after having lodged in it a month, and paid only a week's rent, pawned a piece of cloth
which he was trusted, to cut out, and was forced to make a precipitate retreat from this quarter
of the town.

The next was a young woman newly arrived from the country, who lived for five weeks with great
regularity, and became by frequent treats very much the favourite of the family, but at last
received visits so frequently from a cousin in Cheapside, that she brought the reputation of
the house into danger, and was therefore dismissed with good advice.

The room then stood empty for a fortnight; my landlady began to think that she had judged hardly,
and often wished for such another lodger. At last, an elderly man of a grave aspect read the
bill, and bargained for the room at the very first price that was asked. He lived in close
retirement, seldom went out till evening, and then returned early, sometimes cheerful, and
at other times dejected. It was remarkable, that whatever he purchased, he never had small
money in his pocket; and, though cool and temperate on other occasions, was always vehement
and stormy, till he received his change. He paid his rent with great exactness, and seldom
failed once a week to requite my landlady's civility with a supper. At last, such is the fate
of human felicity, the house was alarmed at midnight by the constable, who demanded to search
the garrets. My landlady assuring him that he had mistaken the door, conducted him up stairs,
where he found the tools of a coiner; but the tenant had crawled along the roof to an empty
house, and escaped; much to the joy of my landlady, who declares him a very honest man, and
wonders why any body should be hanged for making money when such numbers are in want of it.
She however confesses that she shall, for the future, always question the character of those
who take her garret without beating down the price.

The bill was then placed again in the window, and the poor woman was teased for seven weeks
by innumerable passengers, who obliged her to climb with them every hour up five stories, and
then disliked the prospect, hated the noise of a publick street, thought the stairs narrow,
objected to a low ceiling, required the walls to be hung with fresher paper, asked questions
about the neighbourhood, could not think of living so far from their acquaintance, wished the
windows had looked to the south rather than the west, told how the door and chimney might have
been better disposed, bid her half the price that she asked, or promised to give her earnest
the next day, and came no more.

At last, a short meagre man, in a tarnished waistcoat, desired to see the garret, and when
he had stipulated for two long shelves, and a larger table, hired it at a low rate. When the
affair was completed, he looked round him with great satisfaction, and repeated some words
which the woman did not understand. In two days he brought a great box of books, took possession
of his room, and lived very inoffensively, except that he frequently disturbed the inhabitants
of the next floor by unseasonable noises. He was generally in bed at noon, but from evening
to midnight he sometimes talked aloud with great vehemence, sometimes stamped as in rage, sometimes
threw down his poker, then clattered his chairs, then sat down in deep thought, and again burst
out into loud vociferations; sometimes he would sigh as oppressed with misery, and sometimes
shaked with convulsive laughter. When he encountered any of the family, he gave way or bowed,
but rarely spoke, except that as he went up stairs he often repeated,

  [Greek:--Hos hupertata domata naiei].

  This habitant th' aerial regions boast;

hard words, to which his neighbours listened so often, that they learned them without understanding
them. What was his employment she did not venture to ask him, but at last heard a printer's
boy inquire for the author.

My landlady was very often advised to beware of this strange man, who, though he was quiet
for the present, might perhaps become outrageous in the hot months; but, as she was punctually
paid, she could not find any sufficient reason for dismissing him, till one night he convinced
her, by setting fire to his curtains, that it was not safe to have an author for her inmate.

She had then for six weeks a succession of tenants, who left the house on Saturday, and, instead
of paying their rent, stormed at their landlady. At last she took in two sisters, one of whom
had spent her little fortune in procuring remedies for a lingering disease, and was now supported
and attended by the other: she climbed with difficulty to the apartment, where she languished
eight weeks without impatience, or lamentation, except for the expense and fatigue which her
sister suffered, and then calmly and contentedly expired. The sister followed her to the grave,
paid the few debts which they had contracted, wiped away the tears of useless sorrow, and,
returning to the business of common life, resigned to me the vacant habitation.

Such, Mr. Rambler, are the changes which have happened in the narrow space where my present
fortune has fixed my residence. So true it is that amusement and instruction are always at
hand for those who have skill and willingness to find them; and, so just is the observation
of Juvenal, that a single house will shew whatever is done or suffered in the world.

I am, Sir, &c.

No. 162. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1751.

  Orbus es, et locuples, et Bruto consule natus,
    Esse tibi veras credis amicitias?
  Sunt veræ: sed quas juvenis, quas pauper habebas:
    Qui novus est, mortem diligit ille tuam. MART. Lib. xi. Ep. 44.

  What! old, and rich, and childless too,
  And yet believe your friends are true?
  Truth might perhaps to those belong,
  To those who lov'd you poor and young;
  But, trust me, for the new you have,
  They'll love you dearly--in your grave. F. LEWIS.

One of the complaints uttered by Milton's Samson, in the anguish of blindness, is, that he
shall pass his life under the direction of others; that he cannot regulate his conduct by his
own knowledge, but must lie at the mercy of those who undertake to guide him.

There is no state more contrary to the dignity of wisdom than perpetual and unlimited dependance,
in which the understanding lies useless, and every motion is received from external impulse.
Reason is the great distinction of human nature, the faculty by which we approach to some degree
of association with celestial intelligences; but as the excellence of every power appears only
in its operations, not to have reason, and to have it useless and unemployed, is nearly the same.

Such is the weakness of man, that the essence of things is seldom so much regarded as external
and accidental appendages. A small variation of trifling circumstances, a slight change of
form by an artificial dress, or a casual difference of appearance, by a new light and situation,
will conciliate affection or excite abhorrence, and determine us to pursue or to avoid. Every
man considers a necessity of compliance with any will but his own, as the lowest state of ignominy
and meanness; few are so far lost in cowardice or negligence, as not to rouse at the first
insult of tyranny, and exert all their force against him who usurps their property, or invades
any privilege of speech or action. Yet we see often those who never wanted spirit to repel
encroachment or oppose violence, at last, by a gradual relaxation of vigilance, delivering
up, without capitulation, the fortress which they defended against assault, and laying down
unbidden the weapons which they grasp the harder for every attempt to wrest them from their
hands. Men eminent for spirit and wisdom often resign themselves to voluntary pupilage, and
suffer their lives to be modelled by officious ignorance, and their choice to be regulated
by presumptuous stupidity.

This unresisting acquiescence in the determination of others, may be the consequence of application
to some study remote from the beaten track of life, some employment which does not allow leisure
for sufficient inspection of those petty affairs, by which nature has decreed a great part
of our duration to be filled. To a mind thus withdrawn from common objects, it is more eligible
to repose on the prudence of another, than to be exposed every moment to slight interruptions.
The submission which such confidence requires, is paid without pain, because it implies no
confession of inferiority. The business from which we withdraw our cognizance, is not above
our abilities, but below our notice. We please our pride with the effects of our influence
thus weakly exerted, and fancy ourselves placed in a higher orb, for which we regulate subordinate
agents by a slight and distant superintendance. But, whatever vanity or abstraction may suggest,
no man can safely do that by others which might be done by himself; he that indulges negligence
will quickly become ignorant of his own affairs; and he that trusts without reserve will at
last be deceived.

It is, however, impossible but that, as the attention tends strongly towards one thing, it
must retire from another; and he that omits the care of domestick business, because he is engrossed
by inquiries of more importance to mankind, has, at least, the merit of suffering in a good
cause. But there are many who can plead no such extenuation of their folly; who shake off the
burden of their situation, not that they may soar with less incumbrance to the heights of knowledge
or virtue, but that they may loiter at ease and sleep in quiet; and who select for friendship
and confidence not the faithful and the virtuous, but the soft, the civil, and compliant.

This openness to flattery is the common disgrace of declining life. When men feel weakness
increasing on them, they naturally desire to rest from the struggles of contradiction, the
fatigue of reasoning, the anxiety of circumspection; when they are hourly tormented with pains
and diseases, they are unable to bear any new disturbance, and consider all opposition as an
addition to misery, of which they feel already more than they can patiently endure. Thus desirous
of peace, and thus fearful of pain, the old man seldom inquires after any other qualities in
those whom he caresses, than quickness in conjecturing his desires, activity in supplying his
wants, dexterity in intercepting complaints before they approach near enough to disturb him,
flexibility to his present humour, submission to hasty petulance, and attention to wearisome
narrations. By these arts alone many have been able to defeat the claims of kindred and of
merit, and to enrich themselves with presents and legacies.

Thrasybulus inherited a large fortune, and augmented it by the revenues of several lucrative
employments, which he discharged with honour and dexterity. He was at last wise enough to consider,
that life should not be devoted wholly to accumulation, and therefore retiring to his estate,
applied himself to the education of his children, and the cultivation of domestick happiness.

He passed several years in this pleasing amusement, and saw his care amply recompensed; his
daughters were celebrated for modesty and elegance, and his sons for learning, prudence, and
spirit. In time the eagerness with which the neighbouring gentlemen courted his alliance, obliged
him to resign his daughters to other families; the vivacity and curiosity of his sons hurried
them out of rural privacy into the open world, from whence they had not soon an inclination
to return. This, however, he had always hoped; he pleased himself with the success of his schemes,
and felt no inconvenience from solitude till an apoplexy deprived him of his wife.

Thrasybulus had now no companion; and the maladies of increasing years having taken from him
much of the power of procuring amusement for himself, he thought it necessary to procure some
inferior friend, who might ease him of his economical solicitudes, and divert him by cheerful
conversation. All these qualities he soon recollected in Vafer, a clerk in one of the offices
over which he had formerly presided. Vafer was invited to visit his old patron, and being by
his station acquainted with the present modes of life, and by constant practice dexterous in
business, entertained him with so many novelties, and so readily disentangled his affairs,
that he was desired to resign his clerkship, and accept a liberal salary in the house of Thrasybulus.

Vafer, having always lived in a state of dependance, was well versed in the arts by which favour
is obtained, and could, without repugnance or hesitation, accommodate himself to every caprice,
and echo every opinion. He never doubted but to be convinced, nor attempted opposition but
to flatter Thrasybulus with the pleasure of a victory. By this practice he found his way into
his patron's heart, and, having first made himself agreeable, soon became important. His insidious
diligence, by which the laziness of age was gratified, engrossed the management of affairs;
and his petty offices of civility, and occasional intercessions, persuaded the tenants to consider
him as their friend and benefactor, and to entreat his enforcement of their representations
of hard years, and his countenance to petitions for abatement of rent.

Thrasybulus had now banqueted on flattery, till he could no longer bear the harshness of remonstrance
or the insipidity of truth. All contrariety to his own opinion shocked him like a violation
of some natural right, and all recommendation of his affairs to his own inspection was dreaded
by him as a summons to torture. His children were alarmed by the sudden riches of Vafer, but
their complaints were heard by their father with impatience, as the result of a conspiracy
against his quiet, and a design to condemn him, for their own advantage, to groan out his last
hours in perplexity and drudgery. The daughters retired with tears in their eyes, but the son
continued his importunities till he found his inheritance hazarded by his obstinacy.

Vafer triumphed over all their efforts, and, continuing to confirm himself in authority, at
the death of his master, purchased an estate, and bade defiance to inquiry and justice.

No. 163. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1751.

  Mitte superba pati fastidia, spemque caducam
    Despice; vive tibi, nam moriere tibi. SENECA.

  Bow to no patron's insolence; rely
  On no frail hopes, in freedom live and die. F. LEWIS.

None of the cruelties exercised by wealth and power upon indigence and dependance is more mischievous
in its consequences, or more frequently practised with wanton negligence, than the encouragement
of expectations which are never to be gratified, and the elation and depression of the heart
by needless vicissitudes of hope and disappointment.

Every man is rich or poor, according to the proportion between his desires and enjoyments;
any enlargement of wishes is therefore equally destructive to happiness with the diminution
of possession; and he that teaches another to long for what he never shall obtain, is no less
an enemy to his quiet, than if he had robbed him of part of his patrimony.

But representations thus refined exhibit no adequate idea of the guilt of pretended friendship;
of artifices by which followers are attracted only to decorate the retinue of pomp, and swell
the shout of popularity, and to be dismissed with contempt and ignominy, when their leader
has succeeded or miscarried, when he is sick of show, and weary of noise. While a man infatuated
with the promises of greatness, wastes his hours and days in attendance and solicitation, the
honest opportunities of improving his condition pass by without his notice; he neglects to
cultivate his own barren soil, because he expects every moment to be placed in regions of spontaneous
fertility, and is seldom roused from his delusion, but by the gripe of distress which he cannot
resist, and the sense of evils which cannot be remedied.

The punishment of Tantalus in the infernal regions affords a just image of hungry servility,
flattered with the approach of advantage, doomed to lose it before it comes into his reach,
always within a few days of felicity, and always sinking back to his former wants:

 [Greek:
  Kai maen Tantalon eiseidon, chalep alge echonta,
  Estaot en limnae hae de proseplaze geneio.
  Steuto de dipsaon, pieein d ouk eichen elesthai.
  Ossaki gar kupsei ho geron pieein meneainon,
  Tossach hudor apolesket anabrochen. amphi de possi
  Gaia melaina phaneske katazaenaske de daimon,
  Dendrea d hupsipeteala katakoeathen chee kaopon
  Onchnai, kai roiai, kai maeleai aglaokarpoi,
  Sukai te glukeoai, kai elaiai taelethoosai.
  Ton opot ithusei o geoon epi cheosi masasthai,
  Tasd anemos riptaske poti nephea skioenta.]
  HOM. Od. [Greek: A'.] 581.

"I saw," says Homer's Ulysses, "the severe punishment of Tantalus. In a lake, whose waters
approached to his lips, he stood burning with thirst, without the power to drink. Whenever
he inclined his head to the stream, some deity commanded it to be dry, and the dark earth appeared
at his feet. Around him lofty trees spread their fruits to view; the pear, the pomegranate
and the apple, the green olive and the luscious fig quivered before him, which, whenever he
extended his hand to seize them, were snatched by the winds into clouds and obscurity."

This image of misery was perhaps originally suggested to some poet by the conduct of his patron,
by the daily contemplation of splendour which he never must partake, by fruitless attempts
to catch at interdicted happiness, and by the sudden evanescence of his reward, when he thought
his labours almost at an end. To groan with poverty, when all about him was opulence, riot,
and superfluity, and to find the favours which he had long been encouraged to hope, and had
long endeavoured to deserve, squandered at last on nameless ignorance, was to thirst with water
flowing before him, and to see the fruits, to which his hunger was hastening, scattered by
the wind. Nor can my correspondent, whatever he may have suffered, express with more justness
or force the vexations of dependance.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

I am one of those mortals who have been courted and envied as the favourites of the great.
Having often gained the prize of composition at the university, I began to hope that I should
obtain the same distinction in every other place, and determined to forsake the profession
to which I was destined by my parents, and in which the interest of my family would have procured
me a very advantageous settlement. The pride of wit fluttered in my heart, and when I prepared
to leave the college, nothing entered my imagination but honours, caresses, and rewards, riches
without labour, and luxury without expense.

I however delayed my departure for a time, to finish the performance by which I was to draw
the first notice of mankind upon me. When it was completed I hurried to London, and considered
every moment that passed before its publication, as lost in a kind of neutral existence, and
cut off from the golden hours of happiness and fame. The piece was at last printed and disseminated
by a rapid sale; I wandered from one place of concourse to another, feasted from morning to
night on the repetition of my own praises, and enjoyed the various conjectures of criticks,
the mistaken candour of my friends, and the impotent malice of my enemies. Some had read the
manuscript, and rectified its inaccuracies; others had seen it in a state so imperfect, that
they could not forbear to wonder at its present excellence; some had conversed with the author
at the coffeehouse; and others gave hints that they had lent him money.

I knew that no performance is so favourably read as that of a writer who suppresses his name,
and therefore resolved to remain concealed, till those by whom literary reputation is established
had given their suffrages too publickly to retract them. At length my bookseller informed me
that Aurantius, the standing patron of merit, had sent inquiries after me, and invited me to
his acquaintance.

The time which I had long expected was now arrived. I went to Aurantius with a beating heart,
for I looked upon our interview as the critical moment of my destiny. I was received with civilities
which my academick rudeness made me unable to repay; but when I had recovered from my confusion,
I prosecuted the conversation with such liveliness and propriety, that I confirmed my new friend
in his esteem of my abilities, and was dismissed with the utmost ardour of profession, and
raptures of fondness.

I was soon summoned to dine with Aurantius, who had assembled the most judicious of his friends
to partake of the entertainment. Again I exerted my powers of sentiment and expression, and
again found every eye sparkling with delight, and every tongue silent with attention. I now
became familiar at the table of Aurantius, but could never, in his most private or jocund hours,
obtain more from him than general declarations of esteem, or endearments of tenderness, which
included no particular promise, and therefore conferred no claim. This frigid reserve somewhat
disgusted me, and when he complained of three days absence, I took care to inform him with
how much importunity of kindness I had been detained by his rival Pollio.

Aurantius now considered his honour as endangered by the desertion of a wit, and, lest I should
have an inclination to wander, told me that I could never find a friend more constant and zealous
than himself; that indeed he had made no promises, because he hoped to surprise me with advancement,
but had been silently promoting my interest, and should continue his good offices, unless he
found the kindness of others more desired.

If you, Mr. Rambler, have ever ventured your philosophy within the attraction of greatness,
you know the force of such language introduced with a smile of gracious tenderness, and impressed
at the conclusion with an air of solemn sincerity. From that instant I gave myself up wholly
to Aurantius, and, as he immediately resumed his former gaiety, expected every morning a summons
to some employment of dignity and profit. One month succeeded another, and, in defiance of
appearances, I still fancied myself nearer to my wishes, and continued to dream of success,
and wake to disappointment. At last the failure of my little fortune compelled me to abate
the finery which I hitherto thought necessary to the company with whom I associated, and the
rank to which I should be raised. Aurantius, from the moment in which he discovered my poverty,
considered me as fully in his power, and afterwards rather permitted my attendance than invited
it; thought himself at liberty to refuse my visits, whenever he had other amusements within
reach, and often suffered me to wait, without pretending any necessary business. When I was
admitted to his table, if any man of rank equal to his own was present, he took occasion to
mention my writings, and commend my ingenuity, by which he intended to apologize for the confusion
of distinctions, and the improper assortment of his company; and often called upon me to entertain
his friends with my productions, as a sportsman delights the squires of his neighbourhood with
the curvets of his horse, or the obedience of his spaniels.

To complete my mortification, it was his practice to impose tasks upon me, by requiring me
to write upon such subjects as he thought susceptible of ornament and illustration. With these
extorted performances he was little satisfied, because he rarely found in them the ideas which
his own imagination had suggested, and which he therefore thought more natural than mine.

When the pale of ceremony is broken, rudeness and insult soon enter the breach. He now found
that he might safely harass me with vexation, that he had fixed the shackles of patronage upon
me, and that I could neither resist him nor escape. At last, in the eighth year of my servitude,
when the clamour of creditors was vehement, and my necessity known to be extreme, he offered
me a small office, but hinted his expectation, that I should marry a young woman with whom
he had been acquainted.

I was not so far depressed by my calamities as to comply with this proposal; but, knowing that
complaints and expostulations would but gratify his insolence, I turned away with that contempt
with which I shall never want spirit to treat the wretch who can outgo the guilt of a robber
without the temptation of his profit, and who lures the credulous and thoughtless to maintain
the show of his levee, and the mirth of his table, at the expense of honour, happiness, and life.

I am, Sir, &c.

LIBERALIS.

No. 164. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1751.

  --Vitium, Gaure, Catonis habes. MART. Lib. ii. Ep. lxxxix. 2.

  Gaurus pretends to Cato's fame;
  And proves--by Cato's vice, his claim.

Distinction is so pleasing to the pride of man, that a great part of the pain and pleasure
of life arises from the gratification or disappointment of an incessant wish for superiority,
from the success or miscarriage of secret competitions, from victories and defeats, of which,
though they appear to us of great importance, in reality none are conscious except ourselves.

Proportionate to the prevalence of this love of praise is the variety of means by which its
attainment is attempted. Every man however hopeless his pretensions may appear to all but himself,
has some project by which he hopes to rise to reputation; some art by which he imagines that
the notice of the world will be attracted; some quality, good or bad, which discriminates him
from the common herd of mortals, and by which others maybe persuaded to love, or compelled
to fear him. The ascents of honour, however steep, never appear inaccessible; he that despairs
to scale the precipices by which learning and valour have conducted their favourites, discovers
some by-bath, or easier acclivity, which, though it cannot bring him to the summit, will yet
enable him to overlook those with whom he is now contending for eminence; and we seldom require
more to the happiness of the present hour, than to surpass him that stands next before us.

As the greater part of human kind speak and act wholly by imitation, most of those who aspire
to honour and applause propose to themselves some example which serves as the model of their
conduct, and the limit of their hopes. Almost every man, if closely examined, will be found
to have enlisted himself under some leader whom he expects to conduct him to renown; to have
some hero or other, living or dead, in his view, whose character he endeavours to assume, and
whose performances he labours to equal.

When the original is well chosen, and judiciously copied, the imitator often arrives at excellence,
which he could never have attained without direction; for few are formed with abilities to
discover new possibilities of excellence, and to distinguish themselves by means never tried
before.

But folly and idleness often contrive to gratify pride at a cheaper rate: not the qualities
which are most illustrious, but those which are of easiest attainment, are selected for imitation;
and the honours and rewards which publick gratitude has paid to the benefactors of mankind,
are expected by wretches who can only imitate them in their vices and defects, or adopt some
petty singularities of which those from whom they are borrowed were secretly ashamed.

No man rises to such a height as to become conspicuous, but he is on one side censured by undiscerning
malice, which reproaches him for his best actions, and slanders his apparent and incontestable
excellencies; and idolized on the other by ignorant admiration, which exalts his faults and
follies into virtues. It may be observed, that he by whose intimacy his acquaintances imagine
themselves dignified, generally diffuses among them his mien and his habits; and indeed, without
more vigilance than is generally applied to the regulation of the minuter parts of behaviour,
it is not easy, when we converse much with one whose general character excites our veneration,
to escape all contagion of his peculiarities, even when we do not deliberately think them worthy
of our notice, and when they would have excited laughter or disgust, had they not been protected
by their alliance to nobler qualities, and accidentally consorted with knowledge or with virtue.

The faults of a man loved or honoured, sometimes steal secretly and imperceptibly upon the
wise and virtuous, but, by injudicious fondness or thoughtless vanity, are adopted with design.
There is scarce any failing of mind or body, any errour of opinion, or depravity of practice,
which instead of producing shame and discontent, its natural effects, has not at one time or
other gladdened vanity with the hopes of praise, and been displayed with ostentatious industry
by those who sought kindred minds among the wits or heroes, and could prove their relation
only by similitude of deformity.

In consequence of this perverse ambition, every habit which reason condemns may be indulged
and avowed. When a man is upbraided with his faults, he may indeed be pardoned if he endeavours
to run for shelter to some celebrated name; but it is not to be suffered that, from the retreats
to which he fled from infamy, he should issue again with the confidence of conquests, and call
upon mankind for praise. Yet we see men that waste their patrimony in luxury, destroy their
health with debauchery, and enervate their minds with idleness, because there have been some
whom luxury never could sink into contempt, nor idleness hinder from the praise of genius.

This general inclination of mankind to copy characters in the gross, and the force which the
recommendation of illustrious examples adds to the allurements of vice, ought to be considered
by all whose character excludes them from the shades of secrecy, as incitements to scrupulous
caution and universal purity of manners. No man, however enslaved to his appetites, or hurried
by his passions, can, while he preserves his intellects unimpaired, please himself with promoting
the corruption of others. He whose merit has enlarged his influence, would surely wish to exert
it for the benefit of mankind. Yet such will be the effect of his reputation, while he suffers
himself to indulge in any favourite fault, that they who have no hope to reach his excellence
will catch at his failings, and his virtues will be cited to justify the copiers of his vices.

It is particularly the duty of those who consign illustrious names to posterity, to take care
lest their readers be misled by ambiguous examples. That writer may be justly condemned as
an enemy to goodness, who suffers fondness or interest to confound right with wrong, or to
shelter the faults which even the wisest and the best have committed from that ignominy which
guilt ought always to suffer, and with which it should be more deeply stigmatized when dignified
by its neighbourhood to uncommon worth, since we shall be in danger of beholding it without
abhorrence, unless its turpitude be laid open, and the eye secured from the deception of surrounding
splendour.

No. 165. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1751.

  [Greek: Aen neos, alla penaes nun gaeron, plousios eimi
    O monos ek panton oiktros en amphoterois,
  Os tote men chraesthai dunamaen, hopot oud' en eichon.
    Nun d' opote chraesthai mae dunamai, tot echo.] ANTIPHILUS.

  Young was I once and poor, now rich and old;
  A harder case than mine was never told;
  Blest with the power to use them--I had none;
  Loaded with riches now, the power is gone. F. LEWIS.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

The writers who have undertaken the unpromising task of moderating desire, exert all the power
of their eloquence, to shew that happiness is not the lot of man, and have, by many arguments
and examples, proved the instability of every condition by which envy or ambition are excited.
They have set before our eyes all the calamities to which we are exposed from the frailty of
nature, the influence of accident, or the stratagems of malice; they have terrified greatness
with conspiracies, and riches with anxieties, wit with criticism, and beauty with disease.

All the force of reason, and all the charms of language, are indeed necessary to support positions
which every man hears with a wish to confute them. Truth finds an easy entrance into the mind
when she is introduced by desire, and attended by pleasure; but when she intrudes uncalled,
and brings only fear and sorrow in her train, the passes of the intellect are barred against
her by prejudice and passion; if she sometimes forces her way by the batteries of argument,
she seldom long keeps possession of her conquests, but is ejected by some favoured enemy, or
at best obtains only a nominal sovereignty, without influence and without authority.

That life is short we are all convinced, and yet suffer not that conviction to repress our
projects or limit our expectations; that life is miserable we all feel, and yet we believe
that the time is near when we shall feel it no longer. But to hope happiness and immortality
is equally vain. Our state may indeed be more or less embittered as our duration may be more
or less contracted; yet the utmost felicity which we can ever attain will be little better
than alleviation of misery, and we shall always feel more pain from our wants than pleasure
from our enjoyments. The incident which I am going to relate will shew, that to destroy the
effect of all our success, it is not necessary that any signal calamity should fall upon us,
that we should be harassed by implacable persecution, or excruciated by irremediable pains:
the brightest hours of prosperity have their clouds, and the stream of life, if it is not ruffled
by obstructions, will grow putrid by stagnation.

My father, resolving not to imitate the folly of his ancestors, who had hitherto left the younger
sons encumbrances on the eldest, destined me to a lucrative profession; and I, being careful
to lose no opportunity of improvement, was, at the usual time in which young men enter the
world, well qualified for the exercise of the business which I had chosen.

My eagerness to distinguish myself in publick, and my impatience of the narrow scheme of life
to which my indigence confined me, did not suffer me to continue long in the town where I was
born. I went away as from a place of confinement, with a resolution to return no more, till
I should be able to dazzle with my splendour those who now looked upon me with contempt, to
reward those who had paid honours to my dawning merit, and to shew all who had suffered me
to glide by them unknown and neglected, how much they mistook their interest in omitting to
propitiate a genius like mine.

Such were my intentions when I sallied forth into the unknown world, in quest of riches and
honours, which I expected to procure in a very short time; for what could withhold them from
industry and knowledge? He that indulges hope will always be disappointed. Reputation I very
soon obtained; but as merit is much more cheaply acknowledged than rewarded, I did not find
myself yet enriched in proportion to my celebrity.

I had, however, in time, surmounted the obstacles by which envy and competition obstruct the
first attempts of a new claimant, and saw my opponents and censurers tacitly confessing their
despair of success, by courting my friendship and yielding to my influence. They who once pursued
me, were now satisfied to escape from me; and they who had before thought me presumptuous in
hoping to overtake them, had now their utmost wish, if they were permitted, at no great distance,
quietly to follow me.

My wants were not madly multiplied as my acquisitions increased, and the time came, at length,
when I thought myself enabled to gratify all reasonable desires, and when, therefore, I resolved
to enjoy that plenty and serenity which I had been hitherto labouring to procure, to enjoy
them while I was yet neither crushed by age into infirmity, nor so habituated to a particular
manner of life as to be unqualified for new studies or entertainments.

I now quitted my profession, and, to set myself at once free from all importunities to resume
it, changed my residence, and devoted the remaining part of my time to quiet and amusement.
Amidst innumerable projects of pleasure, which restless idleness incited me to form, and of
which most, when they came to the moment of execution, were rejected for others of no longer
continuance, some accident revived in my imagination the pleasing ideas of my native place.
It was now in my power to visit those from whom I had been so long absent, in such a manner
as was consistent with my former resolution, and I wondered how it could happen that I had
so long delayed my own happiness.

Full of the admiration which I should excite, and the homage which I should receive, I dressed
my servants in a more ostentatious livery, purchased a magnificent chariot, and resolved to
dazzle the inhabitants of the little town with an unexpected blaze of greatness.

While the preparations that vanity required were made for my departure, which, as workmen will
not easily be hurried beyond their ordinary rate, I thought very tedious, I solaced my impatience
with imaging the various censures that my appearance would produce; the hopes which some would
feel from my bounty; the terrour which my power would strike on others; the awkward respect
with which I should be accosted by timorous officiousness; and the distant reverence with which
others, less familiar to splendour and dignity, would be contented to gaze upon me. I deliberated
a long time, whether I should immediately descend to a level with my former acquaintances;
or make my condescension more grateful by a gentle transition from haughtiness and reserve.
At length I determined to forget some of my companions, till they discovered themselves by
some indubitable token, and to receive the congratulations of others upon my good fortune with
indifference, to shew that I always expected what I had now obtained. The acclamations of the
populace I purposed to reward with six hogsheads of ale, and a roasted ox, and then recommend
to them to return to their work.

At last all the trappings of grandeur were fitted, and I began the journey of triumph, which
I could have wished to have ended in the same moment; but my horses felt none of their master's
ardour, and I was shaken four days upon rugged roads. I then entered the town, and, having
graciously let fall the glasses, that my person might be seen, passed slowly through the street.
The noise of the wheels brought the inhabitants to their doors, but I could not perceive that
I was known by them. At last I alighted, and my name, I suppose, was told by my servants, for
the barber stepped from the opposite house, and seized me by the hand with honest joy in his
countenance, which, according to the rule that I had prescribed to myself, I repressed with
a frigid graciousness. The fellow, instead of sinking into dejection, turned away with contempt,
and left me to consider how the second salutation should be received. The next fellow was better
treated, for I soon found that I must purchase by civility that regard which I had expected
to enforce by insolence.

There was yet no smoke of bonfires, no harmony of bells, no shout of crowds, nor riot of joy;
the business of the day went forward as before; and, after having ordered a splendid supper,
which no man came to partake, and which my chagrin hindered me from tasting, I went to bed,
where the vexation of disappointment overpowered the fatigue of my journey, and kept me from sleep.

I rose so much humbled by those mortifications, as to inquire after the present state of the
town, and found that I had been absent too long to obtain the triumph which had flattered my
expectation. Of the friends whose compliments I expected, some had long ago moved to distant
provinces, some had lost in the maladies of age all sense of another's prosperity, and some
had forgotten our former intimacy amidst care and distresses. Of three whom I had resolved
to punish for their former offences by a longer continuance of neglect, one was, by his own
industry, raised above my scorn, and two were sheltered from it in the grave. All those whom
I loved, feared, or hated, all whose envy or whose kindness I had hopes of contemplating with
pleasure, were swept away, and their place was filled by a new generation with other views
and other competitions; and among many proofs of the impotence of wealth, I found that it conferred
upon me very few distinctions in my native place.

I am, Sir, &c.

SEROTINUS.

No. 166. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1751.

  Semper, eris pauper si pauper es, Aemiliane:
    Dantur opes nullis nunc nisi divitibus. MART. Lib. v. Ep. xxxi.

  Once poor, my friend, still poor you must remain,
  The rich alone have all the means of gain. EDW. CAVF.

No complaint has been more frequently repeated in all ages than that of the neglect of merit
associated with poverty, and the difficulty with which valuable or pleasing qualities force
themselves into view, when they are obscured by indigence. It has been long observed, that
native beauty has little power to charm without the ornaments which fortune bestows, and that
to want the favour of others is often sufficient to hinder us from obtaining it.

Every day discovers that mankind are not yet convinced of their errour, or that their conviction
is without power to influence their conduct; for poverty still continues to produce contempt,
and still obstructs the claims of kindred and of virtue. The eye of wealth is elevated towards
higher stations, and seldom descends to examine the actions of those who are placed below the
level of its notice, and who in distant regions and lower situations are struggling with distress,
or toiling for bread. Among the multitudes overwhelmed with insuperable calamity, it is common
to find those whom a very little assistance would enable to support themselves with decency,
and who yet cannot obtain from near relations, what they see hourly lavished in ostentation,
luxury, or frolick.

There are natural reasons why poverty does not easily conciliate affection. He that has been
confined from his infancy to the conversation of the lowest classes of mankind, must necessarily
want those accomplishments which are the usual means of attracting favour; and though truth,
fortitude, and probity, give an indisputable right to reverence and kindness, they will not
be distinguished by common eyes, unless they are brightened by elegance of manners, but are
cast aside like unpolished gems, of which none but the artist knows the intrinsick value, till
their asperities are smoothed, and their incrustations rubbed away.

The grossness of vulgar habits obstructs the efficacy of virtue, as impurity and harshness
of style impair the force of reason, and rugged numbers turn off the mind from artifice of
disposition, and fertility of invention. Few have strength of reason to over-rule the perceptions
of sense; and yet fewer have curiosity or benevolence to struggle long against the first impression;
he therefore who fails to please in his salutation and address, is at once rejected, and never
obtains an opportunity of shewing his latent excellencies, or essential qualities.

It is, indeed, not easy to prescribe a successful manner of approach to the distressed or necessitous,
whose condition subjects every kind of behaviour equally to miscarriage. He whose confidence
of merit incites him to meet, without any apparent sense of inferiority, the eyes of those
who flattered themselves with their own dignity, is considered as an insolent leveller, impatient
of the just prerogatives of rank and wealth, eager to usurp the station to which he has no
right, and to confound the subordinations of society; and who would contribute to the exaltation
of that spirit which even want and calamity are not able to restrain from rudeness and rebellion?

But no better success will commonly be found to attend servility and dejection, which often
give pride the confidence to treat them with contempt. A request made with diffidence and timidity
is easily denied, because the petitioner himself seems to doubt its fitness.

Kindness is generally reciprocal; we are desirous of pleasing others, because we receive pleasure
from them; but by what means can the man please, whose attention is engrossed by his distresses,
and who has no leisure to be officious; whose will is restrained by his necessities, and who
has no power to confer benefits; whose temper is perhaps vitiated by misery, and whose understanding
is impeded by ignorance?

It is yet a more offensive discouragement, that the same actions performed by different hands
produce different effects, and, instead of rating the man by his performances, we rate too
frequently the performance by the man. It sometimes happens in the combinations of life, that
important services are performed by inferiors; but though their zeal and activity may be paid
by pecuniary rewards, they seldom excite that flow of gratitude, or obtain that accumulation
of recompense, with which all think it their duty to acknowledge the favour of those who descend
to their assistance from a higher elevation. To be obliged, is to be in some respect inferior
to another[h]; and few willingly indulge the memory of an action which raises one whom they
have always been accustomed to think below them, but satisfy themselves with faint praise and
penurious payment, and then drive it from their own minds, and endeavour to conceal it from
the knowledge of others.

It may be always objected to the services of those who can be supposed to want a reward, that
they were produced not by kindness but interest; they are, therefore, when they are no longer
wanted, easily disregarded as arts of insinuation, or stratagems of selfishness. Benefits which
are received as gifts from wealth, are exacted as debts from indigence; and he that in a high
station is celebrated for superfluous goodness, would in a meaner condition have barely been
confessed to have done his duty.

It is scarcely possible for the utmost benevolence to oblige, when exerted under the disadvantages
of great inferiority; for, by the habitual arrogance of wealth, such expectations are commonly
formed as no zeal or industry can satisfy; and what regard can he hope, who has done less than
was demanded from him?

There are indeed kindnesses conferred which were never purchased by precedent favours, and
there is an affection not arising from gratitude or gross interest, by which similar natures,
are attracted to each other, without prospect of any other advantage than the pleasure of exchanging
sentiments, and the hope of confirming their esteem of themselves by the approbation of each
other. But this spontaneous fondness seldom rises at the sight of poverty, which every one
regards with habitual contempt, and of which the applause is no more courted by vanity, than
the countenance is solicited by ambition. The most generous and disinterested friendship must
be resolved at last into the love of ourselves; he therefore whose reputation or dignity inclines
us to consider his esteem as a testimonial of desert, will always find our hearts open to his
endearments. We every day see men of eminence followed with all the obsequiousness of dependance,
and courted with all the blandishments of flattery, by those who want nothing from them but
professions of regard, and who think themselves liberally rewarded by a bow, a smile, or an
embrace.

But those prejudices which every mind feels more or less in favour of riches, ought, like other
opinions, which only custom and example have impressed upon us, to be in time subjected to
reason. We must learn how to separate the real character from extraneous adhesions and casual
circumstances, to consider closely him whom we are about to adopt or to reject; to regard his
inclinations as well as his actions; to trace out those virtues which lie torpid in the heart
for want of opportunity, and those vices that lurk unseen by the absence of temptation; that
when we find worth faintly shooting in the shades of obscurity, we may let in light and sunshine
upon it, and ripen barren volition into efficacy and power.

[Footnote h: Sir Joshua Reynolds evinced great reach of mind and intimate acquaintance with
humanity, when he observed, on overhearing a person condoling with some ladies on the death
of one who had conferred the greatest favours upon them, that at all events they were relieved
from the burden of gratitude.]

No. 167. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1751.

   Candida perpetuo reside, Concordia, lecto,
    Tamque pari semper sit Venus æqua jugo.
  Diligat illa senem quondam: sed et ipsa marito,
    Tum quoque cum fuerit, non videatur, anus. MART. Lib, w. xii. 7.

  Their nuptial bed may smiling concord dress,
  And Venus still the happy union bless!
  Wrinkled with age, may mutual love and truth
  To their dim eyes recal the bloom of youth. F. LEWIS.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

It is not common to envy those with whom we cannot easily be placed in comparison. Every man
sees without malevolence the progress of another in the tracks of life, which he has himself
no desire to tread, and hears, without inclination to cavils or contradiction, the renown of
those whose distance will not suffer them to draw the attention of mankind from his own merit.
The sailor never thinks it necessary to contest the lawyer's abilities; nor would the Rambler,
however jealous of his reputation, be much disturbed by the success of rival wits at Agra or
Ispahan.

We do not therefore ascribe to you any superlative degree of virtue, when we believe that we
may inform you of our change of condition without danger of malignant fascination; and that
when you read of the marriage of your correspondents Hymenæus and Tranquilla, you will join
your wishes to those of their other friends for the happy event of an union in which caprice
and selfishness had so little part.

There is at least this reason why we should be less deceived in our connubial hopes than many
who enter into the same state, that we have allowed our minds to form no unreasonable expectations,
nor vitiated our fancies in the soft hours of courtship, with visions of felicity which human
power cannot bestow, or of perfection which human virtue cannot attain. That impartiality with
which we endeavour to inspect the manners of all whom we have known was never so much overpowered
by our passion, but that we discovered some faults and weaknesses in each other; and joined
our hands in conviction, that as there are advantages to be enjoyed in marriage, there are
inconveniencies likewise to be endured; and that, together with confederate intellects and
auxiliar virtues, we must find different opinions and opposite inclinations.

We however flatter ourselves, for who is not flattered by himself as well as by others on the
day of marriage? that we are eminently qualified to give mutual pleasure. Our birth is without
any such remarkable disparity as can give either an opportunity of insulting the other with
pompous names and splendid alliances, or of calling in, upon any domestick controversy, the
overbearing assistance of powerful relations. Our fortune was equally suitable, so that we
meet without any of those obligations, which always produce reproach or suspicion of reproach,
which, though they may be forgotten in the gaities of the first month, no delicacy will always
suppress, or of which the suppression must be considered as a new favour, to be repaid by tameness
and submission, till gratitude takes the place of love, and the desire of pleasing degenerates
by degrees into the fear of offending.

The settlements caused no delay; for we did not trust our affairs to the negociation of wretches,
who would have paid their court by multiplying stipulations. Tranquilla scorned to detain any
part of her fortune from him into whose hands she delivered up her person; and Hymenæus thought
no act of baseness more criminal than his who enslaves his wife by her own generosity, who
by marrying without a jointure, condemns her to all the dangers of accident and caprice, and
at last boasts his liberality, by granting what only the indiscretion of her kindness enabled
him to withhold. He therefore received on the common terms the portion which any other woman
might have brought him, and reserved all the exuberance of acknowledgment for those excellencies
which he has yet been able to discover only in Tranquilla.

We did not pass the weeks of courtship like those who consider themselves as taking the last
draught of pleasure, and resolve not to quit the bowl without a surfeit, or who know themselves
about to set happiness to hazard, and endeavour to lose their sense of danger in the ebriety
of perpetual amusement, and whirl round the gulph before they sink. Hymenæus often repeated
a medical axiom, that the succours of sickness ought not to be wasted in health. We know that
however our eyes may yet sparkle, and our hearts bound at the presence of each other, the time
of listlessness and satiety, of peevishness and discontent, must come at last, in which we
shall be driven for relief to shows and recreations; that the uniformity of life must be sometimes
diversified, and the vacuities of conversation sometimes supplied. We rejoice in the reflection
that we have stores of novelty yet unexhausted, which may be opened when repletion shall call
for change, and gratifications yet untasted, by which life, when it shall become vapid or bitter,
may be restored to its former sweetness and sprightliness, and again irritate the appetite,
and again sparkle in the cup.

Our time will probably be less tasteless than that of those whom the authority and avarice
of parents unite almost without their consent in their early years, before they have accumulated
any fund of reflection, or collected materials for mutual entertainment. Such we have often
seen rising in the morning to cards, and retiring in the afternoon to doze, whose happiness
was celebrated by their neighbours, because they happened to grow rich by parsimony, and to
be kept quiet in insensibility, and agreed to eat and to sleep together.

We have both mingled with the world, and are therefore no strangers to the faults and virtues,
the designs and competitions, the hopes and fears of our contemporaries. We have both amused
our leisure with books, and can therefore recount the events of former times, or cite the dictates
of ancient wisdom. Every occurrence furnishes us with some hint which one or the other can
improve, and if it should happen that memory or imagination fail us, we can retire to no idle
or unimproving solitude.

Though our characters, beheld at a distance, exhibit this general resemblance, yet a nearer
inspection discovers such a dissimilitude of our habitudes and sentiments, as leaves each some
peculiar advantages, and affords that concordia discors, that suitable disagreement which is
always necessary to intellectual harmony. There may be a total diversity of ideas which admits
no participation of the same delight, and there may likewise be such a conformity of notions
as leaves neither any thing to add to the decisions of the other. With such contrariety there
can be no peace, with such similarity there can be no pleasure. Our reasonings, though often
formed upon different views, terminate generally in the same conclusion. Our thoughts, like
rivulets issuing from distant springs, are each impregnated in its course with various mixtures,
and tinged by infusions unknown to the other, yet, at last, easily unite into one stream, and
purify themselves by the gentle effervescence of contrary qualities.

These benefits we receive in a greater degree as we converse without reserve, because we have
nothing to conceal. We have no debts to be paid by imperceptible deductions from avowed expenses,
no habits to be indulged by the private subserviency of a favoured servant, no private interviews
with needy relations, no intelligence with spies placed upon each other. We considered marriage
as the most solemn league of perpetual friendship, a state from which artifice and concealment
are to be banished for ever, and in which every act of dissimulation is a breach of faith.

The impetuous vivacity of youth, and that ardour of desire, which the first sight of pleasure
naturally produces, have long ceased to hurry us into irregularity and vehemence; and experience
has shewn us that few gratifications are too valuable to be sacrificed to complaisance.

We have thought it convenient to rest from the fatigue of pleasure, and now only continue that
course of life into which we had before entered, confirmed in our choice by mutual approbation,
supported in our resolution by mutual encouragement, and assisted in our efforts by mutual
exhortation.

Such, Mr. Rambler, is our prospect of life, a prospect which, as it is beheld with more attention,
seems to open more extensive happiness, and spreads, by degrees, into the boundless regions
of eternity. But if all our prudence has been vain, and we are doomed to give one instance
more of the uncertainty of human discernment, we shall comfort ourselves amidst our disappointments,
that we were not betrayed but by such delusions as caution could not escape, since we sought
happiness only in the arms of virtue.

We are, Sir, Your humble Servants, HYMENÆUS. TRANQUILLA.

No. 168. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1751.

  --Decipit
  Frons prima multos: rara mens intelligit,
  Quod interiore condidit cura angulo. PHÆDRUS, Lib. iv. Fab. i. 5.

  The tinsel glitter, and the specious mien,
  Delude the most; few pry behind the scene.

It has been observed by Boileau, that "a mean or common thought expressed in pompous diction,
generally pleases more than a new or noble sentiment delivered in low and vulgar language;
because the number is greater of those whom custom has enabled to judge of words, than whom
study has qualified to examine things."  This solution might satisfy, if such only were offended
with meanness of expression as are unable to distinguish propriety of thought, and to separate
propositions or images from the vehicles by which they are conveyed to the understanding. But
this kind of disgust is by no means confined to the ignorant or superficial; it operates uniformly
and universally upon readers of all classes; every man, however profound or abstracted, perceives
himself irresistibly alienated by low terms; they who profess the most zealous adherence to
truth are forced to admit that she owes part of her charms to her ornaments; and loses much
of her power over the soul, when she appears disgraced by a dress uncouth or ill-adjusted.

We are all offended by low terms, but are not disgusted alike by the same compositions, because
we do not all agree to censure the same terms as low. No word is naturally or intrinsically
meaner than another; our opinion therefore of words, as of other things arbitrarily and capriciously
established, depends wholly upon accident and custom. The cottager thinks those apartments
splendid and spacious, which an inhabitant of palaces will despise for their inelegance; and
to him who has passed most of his hours with the delicate and polite, many expressions will
seem sordid, which another, equally acute, may hear without offence; but a mean term never
fails to displease him to whom it appears mean, as poverty is certainly and invariably despised,
though he who is poor in the eyes of some, may, by others, be envied for his wealth.

Words become low by the occasions to which they are applied, or the general character of them
who use them; and the disgust which they produce, arises from the revival of those images with
which they are commonly united. Thus if, in the most solemn discourse, a phrase happens to
occur which has been successfully employed in some ludicrous narrative, the gravest auditor
finds it difficult to refrain from laughter, when they who are not prepossessed by the same
accidental association, are utterly unable to guess the reason of his merriment. Words which
convey ideas of dignity in one age, are banished from elegant writing or conversation in another,
because they are in time debased by vulgar mouths, and can be no longer heard without the involuntary
recollection of unpleasing images. What can be more dreadful than to implore the presence of
night, invested, not in common obscurity, but in the smoke of hell? Yet the efficacy of this
invocation is destroyed by the insertion of an epithet now seldom heard but in the stable,
and dun night may come or go without any other notice than contempt.

If we start into raptures when some hero of the Iliad tells us that [Greek: doru mainetai],
his lance rages with eagerness to destroy; if we are alarmed at the terrour of the soldiers
commanded by Caesar to hew down the sacred grove, who dreaded, says Lucan, lest the axe aimed
at the oak should fly back upon the striker:

  --Si robora sacra ferirent,
  In sua credebaut redituras membra secures;

  None dares with impious steel the grove to rend,
  Lest on himself the destin'd stroke descend;

we cannot surely but sympathise with the horrours of a wretch about to murder his master, his
friend, his benefactor, who suspects that the weapon will refuse its office, and start back
from the breast which he is preparing to violate. Yet this sentiment is weakened by the name
of an instrument used by butchers and cooks in the meanest employments: we do not immediately
conceive that any crime of importance is to be committed with a knife; or who does not, at
last, from the long habit of connecting a knife with sordid offices, feel aversion rather than
terrour?

Macbeth proceeds to wish, in the madness of guilt, that the inspection of heaven may be intercepted,
and that he may, in the involutions of infernal darkness, escape the eye of Providence. This
is the utmost extravagance of determined wickedness; yet this is so debased by two unfortunate
words, that while I endeavour to impress on my reader the energy of the sentiment, I can scarce
check my risibility, when the expression forces itself upon my mind; for who, without some
relaxation of his gravity, can hear of the avengers of guilt peeping through a blanket?

These imperfections of diction are less obvious to the reader, as he is less acquainted with
common usages; they are therefore wholly imperceptible to a foreigner, who learns our language
from books, and will strike a solitary academick less forcibly than a modish lady.

Among the numerous requisites that must concur to complete an author, few are of more importance
than an early entrance into the living world. The seeds of knowledge may be planted in solitude,
but must be cultivated in publick. Argumentation may be taught in colleges, and theories formed
in retirement; but the artifice of embellishment, and the powers of attraction, can be gained
only by general converse.

An acquaintance with prevailing customs and fashionable elegance is necessary likewise for
other purposes. The injury that grand imagery suffers from unsuitable language, personal merit
may fear from rudeness and indelicacy. When the success of Æneas depended on the favour of
the queen upon whose coasts he was driven, his celestial protectress thought him not sufficiently
secured against rejection by his piety or bravery, but decorated him for the interview with
preternatural beauty. Whoever desires, for his writings or himself, what none can reasonably
contemn, the favour of mankind, must add grace to strength, and make his thoughts agreeable
as well as useful. Many complain of neglect who never tried to attract regard. It cannot be
expected that the patrons of science or virtue should be solicitous to discover excellencies,
which they who possess them shade and disguise. Few have abilities so much needed by the rest
of the world as to be caressed on their own terms; and he that will not condescend to recommend
himself by external embellishments, must submit to the fate of just sentiment meanly expressed,
and be ridiculed and forgotten before he is understood.

No. 169. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1751.

  Nec pluteum cædit, nec demorsos sapit ungues. PER. Sat. i. 106.

  No blood from bitten nails those poems drew;
  But churn'd, like spittle, from the lips they flew. DRYDEN.

Natural historians assert, that whatever is formed for long duration arrives slowly to its
maturity. Thus the firmest timber is of tardy growth, and animals generally exceed each other
in longevity, in proportion to the time between their conception and their birth.

The same observation may be extended to the offspring of the mind. Hasty compositions, however
they please at first by flowery luxuriance, and spread in the sunshine of temporary favour,
can seldom endure the change of seasons, but perish at the first blast of criticism, or frost
of neglect. When Apelles was reproached with the paucity of his productions, and the incessant
attention with which he retouched his pieces, he condescended to make no other answer than
that he painted for perpetuity.

No vanity can more justly incur contempt and indignation than that which boasts of negligence
and hurry. For who can bear with patience the writer who claims such superiority to the rest
of his species, as to imagine mankind are at leisure for attention to his extemporary sallies,
and that posterity will reposite his casual effusions among the treasures of ancient wisdom?

Men have sometimes appeared of such transcendent abilities, that their slightest and most cursory
performances excel all that labour and study can enable meaner intellects to compose; as there
are regions of which the spontaneous products cannot be equalled in other soils by care and
culture. But it is no less dangerous for any man to place himself in this rank of understanding,
and fancy that he is born to be illustrious without labour, than to omit the cares of husbandry,
and expect from his ground the blossoms of Arabia.

The greatest part of those who congratulate themselves upon their intellectual dignity, and
usurp the privileges of genius, are men whom only themselves would ever have marked out as
enriched by uncommon liberalities of nature, or entitled to veneration and immortality on easy
terms. This ardour of confidence is usually found among those who, having not enlarged their
notions by books or conversation, are persuaded, by the partiality which we all feel in our
own favour, that they have reached the summit of excellence, because they discover none higher
than themselves; and who acquiesce in the first thoughts that occur, because their scantiness
of knowledge allows them little choice; and the narrowness of their views affords them no glimpse
of perfection, of that sublime idea which human industry has from the first ages been vainly
toiling to approach. They see a little, and believe that there is nothing beyond their sphere
of vision, as the Patuecos of Spain, who inhabited a small valley, conceived the surrounding
mountains to be the boundaries of the world. In proportion as perfection is more distinctly
conceived, the pleasure of contemplating our own performances will be lessened; it may therefore
be observed, that they who most deserve praise are often afraid to decide in favour of their
own performances; they know how much is still wanting to their completion, and wait with anxiety
and terrour the determination of the publick. I please every one else, says Tally, but never
satisfy myself.

It has often been inquired, why, notwithstanding the advances of later ages in science, and
the assistance which the infusion of so many new ideas has given us, we fall below the ancients
in the art of composition. Some part of their superiority may be justly ascribed to the graces
of their language, from which the most polished of the present European tongues are nothing
more than barbarous degenerations. Some advantage they might gain merely by priority, which
put them in possession of the most natural sentiments, and left us nothing but servile repetition
or forced conceits. But the greater part of their praise seems to have been the just reward
of modesty and labour. Their sense of human weakness confined them commonly to one study, which
their knowledge of the extent of every science engaged them to prosecute with indefatigable
diligence.

Among the writers of antiquity I remember none except Statius who ventures to mention the speedy
production of his writings, either as an extenuation of his faults, or a proof of his facility.
Nor did Statius, when he considered himself as a candidate for lasting reputation, think a
closer attention unnecessary, but amidst all his pride and indigence, the two great hasteners
of modern poems, employed twelve years upon the Thebaid, and thinks his claim to renown proportionate
to his labour.

  Thebais, multa cruciata lima,
  Tentat, audaci fide, Mantuanæ
    Gaudia famæ.

  Polish'd with endless toil, my lays
  At length aspire to Mantuan praise.

Ovid indeed apologizes in his banishment for the imperfection of his letters, but mentions
his want of leisure to polish them as an addition to his calamities; and was so far from imagining
revisals and corrections unnecessary, that at his departure from Rome, he threw his Metamorphoses
into the fire, lest he should be disgraced by a book which he could not hope to finish.

It seems not often to have happened that the same writer aspired to reputation in verse and
prose; and of those few that attempted such diversity of excellence, I know not that even one
succeeded. Contrary characters they never imagined a single mind able to support, and therefore
no man is recorded to have undertaken more than one kind of dramatick poetry.

What they had written, they did not venture in their first fondness to thrust into the world,
but, considering the impropriety of sending forth inconsiderately that which cannot be recalled,
deferred the publication, if not nine years, according to the direction of Horace, yet till
their fancy was cooled after the raptures of invention, and the glare of novelty had ceased
to dazzle the judgment.

There were in those days no weekly or diurnal writers; multa dies et multa litura, much time,
and many rasures, were considered as indispensable requisites; and that no other method of
attaining lasting praise has been yet discovered, may be conjectured from the blotted manuscripts
of Milton now remaining, and from the tardy emission of Pope's compositions, delayed more than
once till the incidents to which they alluded were forgotten, till his enemies were secure
from his satire, and, what to an honest mind must be more painful, his friends were deaf to
his encomiums.

To him, whose eagerness of praise hurries his productions soon into the light, many imperfections
are unavoidable, even where the mind furnishes the materials, as well as regulates their disposition,
and nothing depends upon search or information. Delay opens new veins of thought, the subject
dismissed for a time appears with a new train of dependent images, the accidents of reading
our conversation supply new ornaments or allusions, or mere intermission of the fatigue of
thinking enables the mind to collect new force, and make new excursions. But all those benefits
come too late for him, who, when he was weary with labour, snatched at the recompense, and
gave his work to his friends and his enemies, as soon as impatience and pride persuaded him
to conclude it.

One of the most pernicious effects of haste, is obscurity. He that teems with a quick succession
of ideas, and perceives how one sentiment produces another, easily believes that he can clearly
express what he so strongly comprehends; he seldom suspects his thoughts of embarrassment,
while he preserves in his own memory the series of connection, or his diction of ambiguity,
while only one sense is present to his mind. Yet if he has been employed on an abstruse, or
complicated argument, he will find, when he has awhile withdrawn his mind, and returns as a
new reader to his work, that he has only a conjectural glimpse of his own meaning, and that
to explain it to those whom he desires to instruct, he must open his sentiments, disentangle
his method, and alter his arrangement.

Authors and lovers always suffer some infatuation, from which only absence can set them free;
and every man ought to restore himself to the full exercise of his judgment, before he does
that which he cannot do improperly, without injuring his honour and his quiet.

No. 170. SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1751.

  Confiteor; si quid prodest delicta fateri.
  OVID. Am. Lib. i. El. iv. 3.

  I grant the charge; forgive the fault confess'd.

TO THE RAMBLER.

SIR,

I am one of those beings from whom many, that melt at the sight of all other misery, think
it meritorious to withhold relief; one whom the rigour of virtuous indignation dooms to suffer
without complaint, and perish without regard; and whom I myself have formerly insulted in the
pride of reputation and security of innocence.

I am of a good family, but my father was burthened with more children than he could decently
support. A wealthy relation, as he travelled from London to his country-seat, condescending
to make him a visit, was touched with compassion of his narrow fortune, and resolved to ease
him of part of his charge, by taking the care of a child upon himself. Distress on one side,
and ambition on the other, were too powerful for parental fondness, and the little family passed
in review before him, that he might, make his choice. I was then ten years old, and, without
knowing for what purpose, I was called to my great cousin, endeavoured to recommend myself
by my best courtesy, sung him my prettiest song, told the last story that I had read, and so
much endeared myself by my innocence, that he declared his resolution to adopt me, and to educate
me with his own daughters.

My parents felt the common struggles at the thought of parting, and some natural tears they
dropp'd, but wip'd them soon. They considered, not without that false estimation of the value
of wealth, which poverty long continued always produces, that I was raised to higher rank than
they could give me, and to hopes of more ample fortune than they could bequeath. My mother
sold some of her ornaments to dress me in such a manner as might secure me from contempt at
my first arrival; and when she dismissed me, pressed me to her bosom with an embrace that I
still feel, gave me some precepts of piety, which, however neglected, I have not forgotten,
and uttered prayers for my final happiness, of which I have not yet ceased to hope that they
will at last be granted.

My sisters envied my new finery, and seemed not much to regret our separation; my father conducted
me to the stage-coach with a kind of cheerful tenderness; and in a very short time I was transported
to splendid apartments, and a luxurious table, and grew familiar to shew, noise, and gaiety.

In three years my mother died, having implored a blessing on her family with her last breath.
I had little opportunity to indulge a sorrow which there was none to partake with me, and therefore
soon ceased to reflect much upon my loss. My father turned all his care upon his other children,
whom some fortunate adventures and unexpected legacies enabled him, when he died, four years
after my mother, to leave in a condition above their expectations.

I should have shared the increase of his fortune, and had once a portion assigned me in his
will; but my cousin assuring him that all care for me was needless, since he had resolved to
place me happily in the world, directed him to divide my part amongst my sisters.

Thus I was thrown upon dependance without resource. Being now at an age in which young women
are initiated into company, I was no longer to be supported in my former character, but at
a considerable expense; so that partly lest I should waste money, and partly lest my appearance
might draw too many compliments and assiduities, I was insensibly degraded from my equality,
and enjoyed few privileges above the head servant, but that of receiving no wages.

I felt every indignity, but knew that resentment would precipitate my fall. I therefore endeavoured
to continue my importance by little services and active officiousness, and, for a time, preserved
myself from neglect, by withdrawing all pretences to competition, and studying to please rather
than to shine. But my interest, notwithstanding this expedient, hourly declined, and my cousin's
favourite maid began to exchange repartees with me, and consult me about the alterations of
a cast gown.

I was now completely depressed; and, though I had seen mankind enough to know the necessity
of outward cheerfulness, I often withdrew to my chamber to vent my grief, or turn my condition
in my mind, and examine by what means I might escape from perpetual mortification. At last
my schemes and sorrows were interrupted by a sudden change of my relation's behaviour, who
one day took an occasion when we were left together in a room, to bid me suffer myself no longer
to be insulted, but assume the place which he always intended me to hold in the family. He
assured me that his wife's preference of her own daughters should never hurt me; and, accompanying
his professions with a purse of gold, ordered me to bespeak a rich suit at the mercer's, and
to apply privately to him for money when I wanted it, and insinuate that my other friends supplied
me, which he would take care to confirm.

By this stratagem, which I did not then understand, he filled me with tenderness and gratitude,
compelled me to repose on him as my only support, and produced a necessity of private conversation.
He often appointed interviews at the house of an acquaintance, and sometimes called on me with
a coach, and carried me abroad. My sense of his favour, and the desire of retaining it, disposed
me to unlimited complaisance, and, though I saw his kindness grow every day more fond, I did
not suffer any suspicion to enter my thoughts. At last the wretch took advantage of the familiarity
which he enjoyed as my relation, and the submission which he exacted as my benefactor, to complete
the ruin of an orphan, whom his own promises had made indigent, whom his indulgence had melted,
and his authority subdued.

I know not why it should afford subject of exultation to overpower on any terms the resolution,
or surprise the caution of a girl; but of all the boasters that deck themselves in the spoils
of innocence and beauty, they surely have the least pretensions to triumph, who submit to owe
their success to some casual influence. They neither employ the graces of fancy, nor the force
of understanding, in their attempts; they cannot please their vanity with the art of their
approaches, the delicacy of their adulations, the elegance of their address, or the efficacy
of their eloquence; nor applaud themselves as possessed of any qualities, by which affection
is attracted. They surmount no obstacles, they defeat no rivals, but attack only those who
cannot resist, and are often content to possess the body, without any solicitude to gain the heart.

Many of those despicable wretches does my present acquaintance with infamy and wickedness enable
me to number among the heroes of debauchery. Reptiles whom their own servants would have despised,
had they not been their servants, and with whom beggary would have disdained intercourse, had
she not been allured by hopes of relief. Many of the beings which are now rioting in taverns,
or shivering in the streets, have been corrupted, not by arts of gallantry which stole gradually
upon the affections and laid prudence asleep, but by the fear of losing benefits which were
never intended, or of incurring resentment which they could not escape; some have been frighted
by masters, and some awed by guardians into ruin.

Our crime had its usual consequence, and he soon perceived that I could not long continue in
his family. I was distracted at the thought of the reproach which I now believed inevitable.
He comforted me with hopes of eluding all discovery, and often upbraided me with the anxiety,
which perhaps none but himself saw in my countenance; but at last mingled his assurances of
protection and maintenance with menaces of total desertion, if, in the moments of perturbation
I should suffer his secret to escape, or endeavour to throw on him any part of my infamy.

Thus passed the dismal hours, till my retreat could no longer be delayed. It was pretended
that my relations had sent for me to a distant county, and I entered upon a state which shall
be described in my next letter.

I am, &c.

MISELLA.

No. 171. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1751.

  Tædet coeli convexa tueri. VIRG. FRANCIS.

  Non illum nostri possunt mutare labores;
  Non si frigoribus mediis Hebrunique bibamus,
  Sithoniasque nives hyemis subeamus aquosae:--
  Ominia vincit amor. Vinc.

  [Greek:
  Genos ouden eis Erota;
  Sophiae, tropos pateitai;
  Monon arguron blepousin.
  Apoloito protos autos
  Ho ton arguron philaesas.
  Dia touton ou tokaees,
  Dai touton ou tokaees;
  Polemoi, phonoi di auton.
  To de cheiron, ollymestha
  Dia touton oi philountes.] ANACREON. HOR.

I am, &c.

HERMETICUS. F. LEWIS. [1] Transcriber's note: sic.

  [Greek: Aerakleitos ego ti me o kato helket amousoi,
    Ouch hymin eponoun, tois de m' episgamenoi;
  Eis emoi anthropos trismurioi; oi d' anarithmoi
    Oudeis; taut audo kai para Persephonae] DIOG. LAERT.

END OF VOL. III.

