TONO-BUNGAY

by H.G Wells

BOOK THE FIRST

THE DAYS BEFORE TONO-BUNGAY WAS INVENTED

CHAPTER THE FIRST

OF BLADESOVER HOUSE, AND MY MOTHER; AND THE CONSTITUTION OF SOCIETY

I

Most people in this world seem to live "in character"; they have a beginning, a middle and
an end, and the three are congruous one with another and true to the rules of their type. You
can speak of them as being of this sort of people or that. They are, as theatrical people say,
no more (and no less) than "character actors." They have a class, they have a place, they know
what is becoming in them and what is due to them, and their proper size of tombstone tells
at last how properly they have played the part. But there is also another kind of life that
is not so much living as a miscellaneous tasting of life. One gets hit by some unusual transverse
force, one is jerked out of one's stratum and lives crosswise for the rest of the time, and,
as it were, in a succession of samples. That has been my lot, and that is what has set me at
last writing something in the nature of a novel. I have got an unusual series of impressions
that I want very urgently to tell. I have seen life at very different levels, and at all these
levels I have seen it with a sort of intimacy and in good faith. I have been a native in many
social countries. I have been the unwelcome guest of a working baker, my cousin, who has since
died in the Chatham infirmary; I have eaten illegal snacks--the unjustifiable gifts of footmen--in
pantries, and been despised for my want of style (and subsequently married and divorced) by
the daughter of a gasworks clerk; and--to go to my other extreme--I was once--oh, glittering
days!--an item in the house-party of a countess. She was, I admit, a countess with a financial
aspect, but still, you know, a countess. I've seen these people at various angles. At the dinner-table
I've met not simply the titled but the great. On one occasion--it is my brightest memory--I
upset my champagne over the trousers of the greatest statesman in the empire--Heaven forbid
I should be so invidious as to name him!--in the warmth of our mutual admiration.

And once (though it is the most incidental thing in my life) I murdered a man....

Yes, I've seen a curious variety of people and ways of living altogether. Odd people they all
are great and small, very much alike at bottom and curiously different on their surfaces. I
wish I had ranged just a little further both up and down, seeing I have ranged so far. Royalty
must be worth knowing and very great fun. But my contacts with princes have been limited to
quite public occasions, nor at the other end of the scale have I had what I should call an
inside acquaintance with that dusty but attractive class of people who go about on the high-roads
drunk but enfamille (so redeeming the minor lapse), in the summertime, with a perambulator,
lavender to sell, sun-brown children, a smell, and ambiguous bundles that fire the imagination.
Navvies, farm-labourers, sailormen and stokers, all such as sit in 1834 beer-houses, are beyond
me also, and I suppose must remain so now for ever. My intercourse with the ducal rank too
has been negligible; I once went shooting with a duke, and in an outburst of what was no doubt
snobbishness, did my best to get him in the legs. But that failed.

I'm sorry I haven't done the whole lot though....

You will ask by what merit I achieved this remarkable social range, this extensive cross-section
of the British social organism. It was the Accident of Birth. It always is in England.

Indeed, if I may make the remark so cosmic, everything is. But that is by the way. I was my
uncle's nephew, and my uncle was no less a person than Edward Ponderevo, whose comet-like transit
of the financial heavens happened--it is now ten years ago! Do you remember the days of Ponderevo,
the great days, I mean, of Ponderevo? Perhaps you had a trifle in some world-shaking enterprise!
Then you know him only too well. Astraddle on Tono-Bungay, he flashed athwart the empty heavens--like
a comet--rather, like a stupendous rocket!--and overawed investors spoke of his star. At his
zenith he burst into a cloud of the most magnificent promotions. What a time that was! The
Napoleon of domestic conveniences!

I was his nephew, his peculiar and intimate nephew. I was hanging on to his coat-tails all
the way through. I made pills with him in the chemist's shop at Wimblehurst before he began.
I was, you might say, the stick of his rocket; and after our tremendous soar, after he had
played with millions, a golden rain in the sky, after my bird's-eye view of the modern world,
I fell again, a little scarred and blistered perhaps, two and twenty years older, with my youth
gone, my manhood eaten in upon, but greatly edified, into this Thames-side yard, into these
white heats and hammerings, amidst the fine realites of steel--to think it all over in my leisure
and jot down the notes and inconsecutive observations that make this book. It was more, you
know, than a figurative soar. The zenith of that career was surely our flight across the channel
in the Lord Roberts B....

I warn you this book is going to be something of an agglomeration. I want to trace my social
trajectory (and my uncle's) as the main line of my story, but as this is my first novel and
almost certainly my last, I want to get in, too, all sorts of things that struck me, things
that amused me and impressions I got--even although they don't minister directly to my narrative
at all. I want to set out my own queer love experiences too, such as they are, for they troubled
and distressed and swayed me hugely, and they still seem to me to contain all sorts of irrational
and debatable elements that I shall be the clearer-headed for getting on paper. And possibly
I may even flow into descriptions of people who are really no more than people seen in transit,
just because it amuses me to recall what they said and did to us, and more particularly how
they behaved in the brief but splendid glare of Tono-Bungay and its still more glaring offspring.
It lit some of them up, I can assure you! Indeed, I want to get in all sorts of things. My
ideas of a novel all through are comprehensive rather than austere....

Tono-Bungay still figures on the hoardings, it stands in rows in every chemist's storeroom,
it still assuages the coughs of age and brightens the elderly eye and loosens the elderly tongue;
but its social glory, its financial illumination, have faded from the world for ever. And I,
sole scorched survivor from the blaze, sit writing of it here in an air that is never still
for the clang and thunder of machines, on a table littered with working drawings, and amid
fragments of models and notes about velocities and air and water pressures and trajectories--of
an altogether different sort from that of Tono-Bungay.

II

I write that much and look at it, and wonder whether, after all, this is any fair statement
of what I am attempting in this book. I've given, I see, an impression that I want to make
simply a hotch-potch of anecdotes and experiences with my uncle swimming in the middle as the
largest lump of victual. I'll own that here, with the pen already started, I realise what a
fermenting mass of things learnt and emotions experienced and theories formed I've got to deal
with, and how, in a sense, hopeless my book must be from the very outset. I suppose what I'm
really trying to render is nothing more nor less than Life--as one man has found it. I want
to tell--MYSELF, and my impressions of the thing as a whole, to say things I have come to feel
intensely of the laws, traditions, usages, and ideas we call society, and how we poor individuals
get driven and lured and stranded among these windy, perplexing shoals and channels. I've got,
I suppose, to a time of life when things begin to take on shapes that have an air of reality,
and become no longer material for dreaming, but interesting in themselves. I've reached the
criticising, novel-writing age, and here I am writing mine--my one novel--without having any
of the discipline to refrain and omit that I suppose the regular novel-writer acquires.

I've read an average share of novels and made some starts before this beginning, and I've found
the restraints and rules of the art (as I made them out) impossible for me. I like to write,
I am keenly interested in writing, but it is not my technique. I'm an engineer with a patent
or two and a set of ideas; most of whatever artist there is in me has been given to turbine
machines and boat building and the problem of flying, and do what I will I fail to see how
I can be other than a lax, undisciplined story-teller. I must sprawl and flounder, comment
and theorise, if I am to get the thing out I have in mind. And it isn't a constructed tale
I have to tell, but unmanageable realities. My love-story--and if only I can keep up the spirit
of truth-telling all through as strongly as I have now, you shall have it all--falls into no
sort of neat scheme of telling. It involves three separate feminine persons. It's all mixed
up with the other things....

But I've said enough, I hope, to excuse myself for the method or want of method in what follows,
and I think I had better tell without further delay of my boyhood and my early impressions
in the shadow of Bladesover House.

III

There came a time when I realised that Bladesover House was not all it seemed, but when I was
a little boy I took the place with the entirest faith as a complete authentic microcosm. I
believed that the Bladesover system was a little working-model--and not so very little either--of
the whole world.

Let me try and give you the effect of it.

Bladesover lies up on the Kentish Downs, eight miles perhaps from Ashborough; and its old pavilion,
a little wooden parody of the temple of Vesta at Tibur, upon the hill crest behind the house,
commands in theory at least a view of either sea, of the Channel southward and the Thames to
the northeast. The park is the second largest in Kent, finely wooded with well-placed beeches,
many elms and some sweet chestnuts, abounding in little valleys and hollows of bracken, with
springs and a stream and three fine ponds and multitudes of fallow deer. The house was built
in the eighteenth century, it is of pale red brick in the style of a French chateau, and save
for one pass among the crests which opens to blue distances, to minute, remote, oast-set farm-houses
and copses and wheat fields and the occasional gleam of water, its hundred and seventeen windows
look on nothing but its own wide and handsome territories. A semi-circular screen of great
beeches masks the church and village, which cluster picturesquely about the high road along
the skirts of the great park. Northward, at the remotest corner of that enclosure, is a second
dependent village, Ropedean, less fortunate in its greater distance and also on account of
a rector. This divine was indeed rich, but he was vindictively economical because of some shrinkage
of his tithes; and by reason of his use of the word Eucharist for the Lord's Supper he had
become altogether estranged from the great ladies of Bladesover. So that Ropedean was in the
shadows through all that youthful time.

Now the unavoidable suggestion of that wide park and that fair large house, dominating church,
village and the country side, was that they represented the thing that mattered supremely in
the world, and that all other things had significance only in relation to them. They represented
the Gentry, the Quality, by and through and for whom the rest of the world, the farming folk
and the labouring folk, the trades-people of Ashborough, and the upper servants and the lower
servants and the servants of the estate, breathed and lived and were permitted. And the Quality
did it so quietly and thoroughly, the great house mingled so solidly and effectually earth
and sky, the contrast of its spacious hall and saloon and galleries, its airy housekeeper's
room and warren of offices with the meagre dignities of the vicar, and the pinched and stuffy
rooms of even the post-office people and the grocer, so enforced these suggestions, that it
was only when I was a boy of thirteen or fourteen and some queer inherited strain of scepticism
had set me doubting whether Mr. Bartlett, the vicar, did really know with certainty all about
God, that as a further and deeper step in doubting I began to question the final rightness
of the gentlefolks, their primary necessity in the scheme of things. But once that scepticism
had awakened it took me fast and far. By fourteen I had achieved terrible blasphemies and sacrilege;
I had resolved to marry a viscount's daughter, and I had blacked the left eye--I think it was
the left--of her half-brother, in open and declared rebellion.

But of that in its place. I thought London was only a greater country town where the gentle-folk
kept town-houses and did their greater shopping under the magnificent shadow of the greatest
of all fine gentlewomen, the Queen. It seemed to be in the divine order. That all this fine
appearance was already sapped, that there were forces at work that might presently carry all
this elaborate social system in which my mother instructed me so carefully that I might understand
my "place," to Limbo, had scarcely dawned upon me even by the time that Tono-Bungay was fairly
launched upon the world.

There are many people in England to-day upon whom it has not yet dawned. There are times when
I doubt whether any but a very inconsiderable minority of English people realise how extensively
this ostensible order has even now passed away. The great houses stand in the parks still,
the cottages cluster respectfully on their borders, touching their eaves with their creepers,
the English countryside--you can range through Kent from Bladesover northward and see persists
obstinately in looking what it was. It is like an early day in a fine October. The hand of
change rests on it all, unfelt, unseen; resting for awhile, as it were half reluctantly, before
it grips and ends the thing for ever. One frost and the whole face of things will be bare,
links snap, patience end, our fine foliage of pretences lie glowing in the mire.

