About midday we reached the mountain range which divides Pachatupec from the desert. Anything
more lonesome and depressing it were impossible to conceive. Not a tree, not a shrub, not a
blade of grass nor any green thing; neither running stream nor gleam of water could be seen.
It was a region in which the blessed rain of heaven had not fallen for untold ages, a region
of desolation and death, of naked peaks, rugged precipices, and rocky ravines. The heat from
the overhead sun, intensified by the reverberations from the great masses of rock around us,
and unrelieved by the slightest breath of air, was well-nigh suffocating.

Into this plutonic realm we plunged, and, after a scorching ride, reached the head of a pass
which led straight down to the desert. Here the cacique in command of the detachment told me,
rather to my surprise, that we were to part company. They were already a long way from home
and saw no reason why they should go farther. The desert, albeit four or five leagues distant,
was quite visible, and, once started down the pass, the nandu would be bound to go thither.
He could not climb the rocks to the right or the left, and the braves would take care that
he did not return.

As objection, even though I had felt disposed to make it, would have been useless, I bowed
acquiescence. The thought of resisting had more than once crossed my mind, and, by dint of
struggling and fighting, I might have made the nandu so restive that I could not have been
fastened on his back. But in that case my second condition would have been worse than my first;
I should have been taken back to Pachatupec and either burned alive or hacked to pieces, and,
black as seemed the outlook, I clung to the hope that the man-killer would somehow be the means
of saving my life.

The binding was effected with considerable difficulty. It required the united strength of nearly
all the braves to hold the nandu while the cacique and the keepers secured me on his back.
As he was let go he kicked out savagely, ripping open with his terrible claws one of the men
who had been holding him. The next moment he was striding down the steep and stony pass at
a speed which, in a few minutes, left the pursuing and shouting Pachatupecs far behind. The
ground was so rough and the descent so rapid that I expected every moment we should come to
grief. But on we went like the wind. Never in my life, except in an express train, was I carried
so fast. The great bird was either wild with rage or under the impression that he was being
hunted. The speed took my breath away; the motion make me sick. He must have done the fifteen
miles between the head of the pass and the beginning of the desert in little more than as many
minutes. Then, the ground being covered with sand and comparatively level, the nandu slacked
his speed somewhat, though he still went at a great pace.

The desert was a vast expanse of white sand, the glare of which, in the bright sunshine, almost
blinded me, interspersed with stretches of rock, swept bare by the wind, and loose stones.

Instead of turning to the right or left, that is to say, to the north or south, as I hoped
and expected he would, the man-killer ran straight on toward the sea. As for the distance of
the coast from that part of the Cordillera I had no definite idea--perhaps thirty miles, perhaps
fifty, perhaps more. But were it a hundred we should not be long in going thither at the speed
we were making; and vague hopes, suggesting the possibility of signalling a passing ship or
getting away by sea, began to shape themselves in the mind. The nandu could not go on forever;
before reaching the sea he must either alter his course or stop, and if he stopped only a few
minutes and so gave me a chance of steadying myself I thought that, by the help of my teeth,
I might untie one of the cords which the movements of the bird and my own efforts had already
slightly loosened, and once my arms were freed the rest would be easy.

An hour (as nearly as I could judge) after leaving the Cordillera I sighted the Pacific--a
broad expanse of blue water shining in the sun and stretching to the horizon. How eagerly I
looked for a sail, a boat, the hut of some solitary fisherman, or any other sign of human presence!
But I saw nothing save water and sand; the ocean was as lonesome as the desert. There was no
salvation thitherward.

Though my hope had been vague, my disappointment was bitter; but a few minutes later all thought
of it was swallowed up in a new fear. The sea was below me, and as the ground had ceased to
fall I knew that the desert must end on that side in a line of lofty cliffs. I knew, also,
that nandus are among the most stupid of bipeds, and it was just conceivable that the man-killer,
not perceiving his danger until too late, might go over the cliffs into the sea.

The hoarse roar of the waves as they surge against the rocks, at first faint, grows every moment
louder and deeper. I see distinctly the land's end, and mentally calculate from the angle it
makes with the ocean, the height of the cliffs.

Still the man-killer strides on, as straight as an arrow and as resolutely as if a hundred
miles of desert, instead of ten thousand miles of water, stretched before him. Three minutes
more and--I set my teeth hard and draw a deep breath. At any rate, it will be an easier end
than burning, or dying of thirst--Another moment and--

But now the nandu, seeing that he will soon be treading the air, makes a desperate effort to
stop short, in which failing he wheels half round, barely in time to save his life and mine,
and then courses madly along the brink for miles, as if unable to tear himself away, keeping
me in a state of continual fear, for a single slip, or an accidental swerve to the right, and
we should have fallen headlong down the rocks, against which the waves are beating.

As night closes in he gradually--to my inexpressible relief--draws inland, making in a direction
that must sooner or later take us back to the Cordillera, though a long way south of the pass
by which we had descended to the desert. But I have hardly sighted the outline of the mighty
barrier, looming portentously in the darkness, when he alters his course once again, wenching
this time almost due south. And so he continues for hours, seldom going straight, now inclining
toward the coast, anon facing toward the Cordillera but always on the southward tack, never
turning to the north.

It was a beautiful night. The splendor of the purple sky with its myriads of lustrous stars
was in striking contrast with the sameness of the white and deathlike desert. A profound melancholy
took hold of me. I had ceased to fear, almost to think, my perceptions were blinded by excitement
and fatigue, my spirits oppressed by an unspeakable sense of loneliness and helplessness, and
the awful silence, intensified rather than relieved by the long drawn moaning of the unseen
ocean, which, however far I might be from it, was ever in my ears.

I looked up at the stars, and when the cross began to bend I knew that midnight was past, and
that in a few hours would dawn another day. What would it bring me--life or death? I hardly
cared which; relief from the torture and suspense I was enduring would be welcome, come how
it might. For I suffered cruelly; I had a terrible thirst. The cords chafed my limbs and cut
into my flesh. Every movement gave an exquisite pain; I was continually on the rack; rest,
even for a moment, was impossible, as, though the nandu had diminished his speed, he never
stopped. And then a wind came up from the sea, bringing with it clouds of dust, which well-nigh
choked and half blinded me; filled my ears and intensified my thirst. After a while a strange
faintness stole over me; I felt as if I were dying, my eyes closed, my head sank on my breast,
and I remembered no more.

CHAPTER XXVI.

ANGELA.

"Regardez mon père, regardez! Il va mieux, le pauvre homme."

"C'est ça, ma fille chérie, faites le boire."

I open my eyes with an effort, for the dust of the desert has almost blinded me.

I am in a beautiful garden, leaning against the body of the dead ostrich, a lovely girl is
holding a cup of water to my parched lips, and an old man of benevolent aspect stands by her side.

"Merci mademoiselle, vous etes bien bonne," I murmur.

"Oh, father, he speaks French."

"This passes comprehension. Are you French, monsieur?"

"No, English."

"English! This is stranger still. But whence come you, and who bound you on the nandu?"

"I will tell you--a little more water, I pray you, mademoiselle."

"Let him drink again, Angela--and dash some water in his face; he is faint."

"Le pauvre homme! See how his lips are swollen! Do you feel better, monsieur?" she asked compassionately,
again putting the cup to my lips.

"Much. A thousand thanks. I can answer your question now (to the old man). I was bound on the
nandu by order of the Queen of the Pachatupec Indians."

"The Pachatupec Indians! I have heard of them. But they are a long way off; more than a hundred
leagues of desert lies between us and the Pachatupec country. Are you quite sure, monsieur?"

"Quite. And seeing that the nandu went at great speed, though not always in a direct line,
and we must have been going fifteen or sixteen hours, I am not surprised that we have travelled
so far."

"Mon dieu! And all that time you have neither eaten nor drunk. No wonder you are exhausted!
Come with us, and we will give you something more invigorating than water. You shall tell us
your story afterward--if you will."

I tried to rise, but my stiffened and almost paralyzed limbs refused to move.

"Let us help you. Take his other arm, Angela--thus, Now!" And with that they each gave me a
hand and raised me to my feet.

"How was it? Who killed the nandu?" I asked as I hobbled on between them.

"We saw the creature coming toward us with what looked like a dead man on his back, and as
he did not seem disposed to stop I told Angela, who is a famous archer, to draw her bow and
shoot him. He fell dead where he now lies, and when we saw that, though unconscious, you still
lived, we unloosed you."

"And saved my life. Might I ask to whom I am indebted for this great service, and to what beautiful
country the nandu has brought me?"

"Say nothing about the service, my dear sir. Helping each other in difficulty and distress
is a duty we owe to Heaven and our common humanity. I count your coming a great blessing. You
are the first visitor we have had for many years, and the Abbé Balthazar gives you a warm welcome
to San Cristobal de Quipai. The name is of good omen, Quipai being an Indian word which signifies
'Rest Here,' and I shall be glad for you to rest here so long as it may please you."

"Nigel Fortescue, formerly an officer in the British Army, at present a fugitive and a wanderer,
tenders you his warmest thanks, and gratefully accepts your hospitality--And now that we know
each other, Monsieur l'Abbé, might I ask the favor of an introduction to the young lady to
whom I owe my deliverance from the nandu?"

"She is Angela, monsieur. My people call her Señorita Angela. It pleases me sometimes to speak
of her as Angela Dieu-donnée, for she was sent to us by God, and ever since she came among
us she has been our good angel."

"I am sure she has. Nobody with so sweet a face could be otherwise than good," I said, with
an admiring glance at the beautiful girl which dyed the damask of her cheek a yet deeper crimson.

It was no mere compliment. In all my wanderings I have not beheld the equal of Angela Dieu-donnée.
Though I can see her now, though I learned to paint in order that, however inadequately, I
might make her likeness, I am unable to describe her; words can give no idea of the comeliness
of her face, the grace of her movements, and the shapeliness of her form. I have seen women
with skins as fair, hair as dark, eyes as deeply blue, but none with the same brightness of
look and sweetness of disposition, none with courage as high, temper as serene.

To look at Angela was to love her, though as yet I knew not that I had regained my liberty
only to lose my heart. My feelings at the moment oscillated between admiration of her and a
painful sense of my own disreputable appearance. Bareheaded and shoeless, covered with the
dust of the desert, clad only in a torn shirt and ragged trousers, my arms and legs scored
with livid marks, I must have seemed a veritable scarecrow. Angela looked like a queen, or
would have done were queens ever so charming, or so becomingly attired. Her low-crowned hat
was adorned with beautiful flowers; a loose-fitting alpaca robe of light blue set off her form
to the best advantage, and round her waist was a golden baldrick which supported a sheaf of
arrows. At her breast was an orchid which in Europe would have been almost priceless, her shapely
arms were bare to the shoulder, and her sandaled feet were innocent of hosen.

I was wondering who could have designed this costume, in which there was a savor of the pictures
of Watteau and the court of Versailles, how so lovely a creature could have found her way to
a place so remote as San Cristobal de Quipai, when the abbé resumed the conversation.

"Angela came to us as strangely and unexpectedly as you have come, Monsieur Nigel" (he found
my Christian name the easier to pronounce), "and, like you, without any volition on her part
or previous knowledge of our existence. But there is this difference between you: she came
as a little child, you come as a grown man. Sixteen years ago we had several severe earthquakes.
They did us little harm down here, but up on the Cordillera they wrought fearful havoc, and
the sea rose and there was a great storm, and several ships were dashed to pieces against our
iron-bound coast, which no mariner willingly approaches. The morning after the tempest there
was found on the edge of the cliffs a cot in which lay a rosy-cheeked babe. How it came to
pass none could tell, but we all thought that the cot must have been fastened to a board, which
became detached from the cot at the very moment when the sea threw it on the land. The babe
was just able to lisp her name--'Angela,' which corresponded with the name embroidered on her
clothing. This is all we know about her; and I greatly fear that those to whom she belonged
perished in the storm. Even the wreckage that was washed ashore furnished no clew; it was part
of two different vessels. The little waif was brought to me and with me she has ever since
remained."

"And will always remain, dear father," said Angela, regarding the old priest with loving reverence.
"All that I lost in the storm has he been to me--father, mother, instructor, and friend. You
see here, monsieur, the best and wisest man in all the world."

"You have had so wide an experience of the world and of men, mignonne!" returned the abbé,
with an amused smile. "Sir, since she could speak she has seen two white men. You are the second.--Ah,
well, if I were not afraid you would think we had constituted ourselves into a mutual admiration
society I should be tempted to say something even more complimentary about her."

"Say it, Monsieur l'Abbé, say it, I pray you," I exclaimed, eagerly, for it pleased me more
than I can tell to hear him sound Angela's praises.

"Nay, I would rather you learned to appreciate her from your own observation. Yet I will say
this much. She is the brightness of my life, the solace of my old age, and so good that even
praise does not spoil her. But you look tired; shall we sit down on this fallen log and rest
a few minutes?"

To this proposal I gladly assented, for I was spent with fatigue and faint with hunger. Angela,
however, after glancing at me compassionately and saying she would be back in a few minutes,
went a little farther and presently returned with a bunch of grapes.

"Eat these," she said, "they will refresh you."

It was a simple act of kindness; but a simple act of kindness, gracefully performed, is often
an index of character, and I felt sure that the girl had a kind heart and deserved all the
praise bestowed on her by the abbé.

I was thanking her, perhaps more warmly than the occasion required, when she stopped the flow
of my eloquence by reminding me that I had not yet told them why the Indian queen caused me
to be fastened on the back of the nandu.

On this hint I spoke, and though the abbé suggested that I was too tired for much talking,
I not only answered the question but briefly narrated the main facts of my story, reserving
a fuller account for a future occasion.

Both listened with rapt attention; but of the two Angela was the more eager listener. She several
times interrupted me with requests for information as to matters which even among European
children are of common knowledge, for, though the abbé was a man of high learning and she an
apt pupil, her experience of life was limited to Quipai; and he had been so long out of the
world that he had almost forgotten it. As for news, he was worse off than Fray Ignacio. He
had heard of the First Consul but nothing of the Emperor Napoleon, and when I told him of the
restoration of the Bourbons he shed tears of joy.

"Thank God!" he exclaimed, fervently, "France is once more ruled by a son of St. Louis. The
tricolor is replaced by the fleur-de-lis. You are our second good angel, Monsieur Fortescue;
you bring us glad tidings of great joy--You smile, but I am persuaded that Providence has led
you hither in so strange a way for some good purpose, and as I venture to hope, in answer to
my prayers; for albeit our lives here are so calm and happy, and I have been the means of bringing
a great work to a successful issue, it is not in the nature of things that men should be free
from care, and my mind has lately been troubled with forebodings--"

"And you never told me, father!" said Angela, reproachfully. "What are they, these forebodings?"

"Why should you be worried with an old man's difficulties? One has reference to my people,
the other--but never mind the other. It may be that already a way has been opened.--If you
feel sufficiently rested, Monsieur Nigel, I think we had better proceed. A short walk will
bring us to San Cristobal, and it would be well for us to get thither before the heat of the day."

I protested that the rest and the bunch of grapes had so much refreshed me that I felt equal
to a long walk, and we moved on.

"What a splendid garden!" I exclaimed for the third or fourth time as we entered an alley festooned
with trailing flowers and grape-vines from which the fruit hung in thick clusters.

"All Quipai is a garden," said the abbé, proudly. "We have fruit and flowers and cereals all
the year round, thanks to the great azequia (aqueduct) which the Incas built and I restored.
And such fruit! Let him taste a chirimoya ma fille chèrie."

From a tree about fifteen feet high Angela plucked a round green fruit, not unlike an apple,
but covered with small knobs and scales. Then she showed me how to remove the skin, which covered
a snow-white juicy pulp of exquisite fragrance and a flavor that I hardly exaggerated in calling
divine. It was a fruit fit for the gods, and so I said.

"We owe it all to the great azequia," observed the abbé. "See, it feeds these rills and fills
those fountains, waters our fields, and makes the desert bloom like the rose and the dry places
rejoice. And we have not only fruit and flowers, but corn, coffee, cocoa, yuccas, potatoes,
and almost every sort of vegetable."

"Quipai is a land of plenty and a garden of delight."

"A most apt description, and so long as the great azequia is kept in repair and the system
of irrigation which I have established is maintained it will remain a land of plenty and a
garden of delight."

"And if any harm should befall the azequia?"

"In that case, and if our water-supply were to fail, Quipai, as you see it now, would cease
to exist. The desert, which we are always fighting and have so far conquered, would regain
the mastery, and the mission become what I found it, a little oasis at the foot of the Cordillera,
supporting with difficulty a few score families of naked Indians. One of these days, if you
are so disposed, you shall follow the course of the azequia and see for yourself with what
a marvellous reservoir, fed by Andean snows, Nature has provided us. But more of this another
time. Look! Yonder is San Cristobal, our capital as I sometimes call it, though little more
than a village."

The abbé said truly. It was little more than a village; but as gay, as picturesque, and as
bright as a scene in an opera--two double rows of painted houses forming a large oval, the
space between them laid out as a garden with straight walks and fountains and clipped shrubs,
after the fashion of Versailles; in the centre a church and two other buildings, one of which,
as the abbé told me, was a school, the other his own dwelling.

The people we met saluted him with great humility, and he returned their salutations quite
en grand seigneur, even, as I thought, somewhat haughtily. One woman knelt in the road, kissed
his hand, and asked for his blessing, which he gave like the superior being she obviously considered
him. It was the same in the village. Everybody whom we met or passed stood still and uncovered.
There could be no question who was master in San Cristobal. Abbé Balthazar was both priest
and king, and, as I afterward came to know, there was every reason why he should be.

He kept a large establishment, for the country, and lived in considerable state. On entering
his house, which was surrounded by a veranda and embowered in trees, the abbé, asked if I would
like a bath, and on my answering in the affirmative ordered one of the servants, all of whom
spoke Spanish, to take me to the bath-room and find me a suit of clothes.

The bath made me feel like another man, and the fresh garments effected as great a change in
my personal appearance. There was not much difficulty about the fit. A cotton undershirt, a
blue jacket with silver buttons, a red sash, white breeches, loose at the knee, and a pair
of sandals, and I was fully attired. Stockings I had to dispense with. They were not in vogue
at San Cristobal.

When I was ready, the servant, who had acted as my valet, conducted me to the dining-room,
where I found Angela and the abbé.

"Parbleu!" exclaimed the latter, who occasionally indulged in expressions that were not exactly
clerical. "Parbleu! I had no idea that a bath and clean raiment could make so great an improvement
in a man's appearance. That costume becomes you to admiration, Monsieur Nigel. Don't you think
so, Angela?"

"You forget, father, that he is the only caballero I ever saw. Are all caballeros like him?"

"Very few, I should say. It is a long time since I saw any; but even at the court of Louis
XV. I do not remember seeing many braver looking gentlemen than our guest."

As I bowed in acknowledgment of the compliment Angela gave me a quick glance, blushed deeply,
and then, turning to the abbé, proposed that we should take our places at the table.

