She wouldn't explain herself; she wouldn't seek self-exculpation; and while, with all her humility,
Mary felt that as a little stinging, she felt it, also, as something of a relief. Mrs. Upton,
no doubt, was indifferent as to her opinion of her rightness and her wrongness, and Mrs. Upton--there
was the comfort of it,--was a person whom one must put on one side when it came to judgments.
She didn't seem to belong to any of the usual categories. One didn't want to judge her. One
was thankful for the haze she made about herself and her motives. That Jack understood her
was, Mary felt sure, the result of some peculiar perspicacity of Jack's, for she didn't believe
that Mrs. Upton had ever explained or exculpated herself to Jack, either. It even dawned on
her that his perspicacity perhaps consisted mainly in the sense of trust that she herself was
experiencing. She trusted Mrs. Upton, were she right, or were she wrong, and there was an end
of it. With that final realization she uncovered her eyes and met her hostess's eyes again,
eyes so soft, so clear, but with, in them, a look of suffering. Childlike, her hair folding
behind her cheek and neck, she was faded, touched with age; Mary had never seen it so clearly.
Somehow it made her even sorrier than the suffering she recognized.

"Oh, but it's been hard for you, too," she exclaimed, shyly but irrepressibly, "everything,
all of it. Just let me say that."

Valerie had blushed her infrequent, vivid blush. She rose and came behind Mary's chair again,
gathering up the abandoned tresses. But before she began to comb and coil she said, "Thanks,"
leaning forward and, very lightly, kissing the girl's forehead.

After that there was silence between them while the work of hair-dressing went on. Valerie
did not speak again until, softly forming the contour of the transfigured head, she said, looking
at Mary's reflection with an air of quiet triumph;--"Now, is not that charming?"

"Charming; perfectly charming," Mary replied, vaguely; the tears were near her eyes.

"You must come again, to-morrow, and do it under my supervision. It only needs this, now."
She thrust two heavy tortoise-shell pins into the coils on either side of Mary's head.

"Those beautiful pins! I am afraid I shall lose them!"

"But they are yours,--mementoes of the new era in hair-dressing. I have several of them. There,
you are quite as I would have you,--as far as your head goes."

"Not as far as the rest of me goes, I'm afraid," said Mary, laughing in spite of herself, and
lured from sadness.

"I wish you'd let me make the rest of you to match," said Valerie. "I've always loved dressing
people up. I loved dressing my dolls when I was a child. That stiff shirt doesn't go with your
head."

"No, it doesn't. I really don't see," said Mary tentatively, "why one shouldn't regard dressing
as a form of art; I mean, of course, as long as one keeps it in its proper place, as it were."

"To get it in its proper place is to dress well, don't you think. I found such a pretty lawn
dress of mine in a trunkful of things put away here; it's a little too juvenile for me, now,
and, besides, I'm in mourning. May I put you into it?"

"But I should feel so odd, so frivolous. I'm such a staid, solemn person."

"But the dress is staid, too,--a dear little austerity of a dress;--it's just as much you as
that way of doing your hair is. Don't imagine that I would commit such a solecism as to dress
you frivolously. Look; will you put this on at once,--to please me?"

She had drawn the delicate thing, all falls and plaitings of palest blue, from a closet, and,
shaking it out, looked up with quite serious eyes of supplication. It was impossible not to
yield. Laughing, frightened, charmed, Mary allowed Mrs. Upton to dress her, and then surveyed
herself in the long mirror with astonishment. She couldn't but own that it was herself, though
such a transfigured self. She didn't feel out of place, though she felt new and strange.

"Now, Mary, go down to them and see to it that they all do as I say," Valerie insisted. "Imogen
is to take Sir Basil to the club;--Miss Bocock is to garden with me--tell her particularly
that I count upon her. Jack is to take you for a drive. And, Mary," she put her hand for a
moment on the girl's shoulder, grave for all her recovered lightness;--"you are not to talk
of sad things to Jack. You must help me about Jack. You must cheer him;--make him forget. You
must talk of all the things you used to talk of before--before either I or Imogen came."

They were all on the veranda when Mary went down; all, that is, but Rose and Eddy. Sir Basil
and Miss Bocock were deep in letters. Imogen, seated on a step, the sunlight playing over her
fluttering black, endured--it was evident that enjoyment made no part of her feeling--a vivid
and emphatic account from Jack of some recent political occurrence. He was even reading, here
and there, bits from the newspaper he held, and Mary fancied that there was an unnatural excitement
in his voice, an unusual eagerness in his eye, with neither of which had he in the least infected
Imogen.

On seeing Mary appear he dropped the newspaper and joined her in the hall, drawing her from
there into the little library. "Well?--Well?--" he questioned keenly.

He had no eyes for her transformation, Mary noted that, although Imogen, in the instant of
her appearance, had fixed grave and astonished eyes upon her. She repeated her message.

"Well, do you know," said Jack, "we can't obey her. I'm so sorry;--I should have liked the
drive with you, Mary, of all things; but it turns out that I can't take anybody this morning,
I've some letters, just come, that must be answered by return. But, Mary, see here," his voice
dropped and his keenness became more acute;--"help me about it. See that she goes. She needs it."

"Needs it?"

"Don't you see that she's worn out?"

"Jack, only this morning, I've begun to suspect it;--what is the matter?"

"Everything. Everything is the matter. So, she mustn't be allowed to take all the drudgery
on her hands. Miss Bocock may go to the club with Imogen; she's just ready to go, she wants
to go;--and Mrs. Upton must have the drive with Sir Basil. He'd far rather drive with her than
walk with Imogen," said Jack brazenly.

"I suppose so, they are such great friends;--only;--drudgery?--She likes Miss Bocock. She likes
gardening,"--Mary's breath was almost taken away by his tense decisiveness.

"She likes Sir Basil better"; Jack said it in the freest manner, a manner that left untouched
any deeper knowledge that they might both be in possession of. "Imogen likes him better, too.
It's for that, so that Imogen may have the best of it, that she's taking Miss Bocock off Imogen's
hands;--you see, I see that you do. So, you just stay here and keep still about your counter-demands,
while I manage it."

"But Jack,--you bewilder me!--I ought to give my message. I hate managing."

"I'll see that your message is given."

"But how can you?--Jack--what are you planning?"

He was going and, with almost an impatience of her Puritan scruples, he paused at the door
to reply:--"Don't bother. I'm all right. I won't manage it. I'll simply have it so."

Half an hour later Valerie came down-stairs wearing her white hat with its black ribbons and
drawing on her gardening gloves. And in the large, cool hall, holding his serviceable letters,
Jack awaited her.

"I hope you won't mind," he announced, but in the easiest tones; "we can't obey you this morning.
Miss Bocock's gone off to the club with Imogen, and Sir Basil is going to take you for a drive."

