Having walked with him on "Some Winter Days," one is all the more eager to follow him in the
gentler months of Spring--that mother-season, with its brooding pathos, and its seeds stirring
in their sleep as if they dreamed of flowers.

Our guide is at once an expert and a friend, a man of science and a poet. If he should sleep
a year, like dear old Rip, he would know, by the calendar of the flowers, what day of the month
he awoke. He knows the story of trees, the arts of insects, the habits of birds and their parts
of speech. His wealth of detail is amazing, but never wearying, and he is happily allusive
to the nature-lore of the poets, and to the legends and myths of the woodland. He has the insight
of Thoreau, the patience of Burroughs, and a nameless quality of his own--a blend of joyous
love and wonder. His style is as lucid as sunlight, investing his pages with something of the
simplicity and calm of Nature herself. The fine sanity and health of the man are in the book,
as of one to whom the beauty of the world is reason enough for life, and an invitation to live
well. He does not preach--though he sometimes stops to point to a forest vista, or a sunset,
where the colors are melted into a beauty too fair and frail for this earth.

Let us hope that the author will complete his history of the seasons, and tell of us of Summer
with its riot of life and loveliness, and of the Autumn-time with its pensive, dreamy beauty
that is akin to death. He is a teacher of truth and good-will, of health and wisdom, of the
brotherhood of all breathing things. Having opened the gate, I leave it open for those who
have eyes to see and ears to hear.

JOSEPH NEWTON

CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA
  DECEMBER 1, 1908

APRIL--BUDS AND BIRD SONGS

IV. APRIL--BUDS AND BIRD SONGS

              "Has she not shown us all?
    From the clear space of ether, to the small
    Breath of new buds unfolding? From the meaning
    Of Jove's large eyebrow, to the tender greening
    Of April meadows?"

  "And whiles Zeus gives the sunshine, whiles the rain."

A strong southeast wind is blowing straight up the broad river, driving big undulations up
the stream, counter to the current which, in turn, pushes at the base of the waves and causes
their wind-driven crests to fall forward and break into spray. The whole surface of the river
is flecked with these whitecaps, a rare sight on an inland stream but characteristic of April.
We sit on a ledge of rock high up the slope of the cañon and listen as they break, break, break.
We may close our eyes and fancy we are with Edmund Danton in his sea-girt dungeon, or with
Tennyson and his "cold, gray stones," or with King Canute and his flattering courtiers on the
sandy shore. But a song sparrow with his recitative "Oleet, oleet, oleet," followed by the
well-known cadenza, dispels the fancies and calls our attention to himself as he sits on a
hop hornbeam and sings at half-minute intervals. The wind ruffles his sober coat of brown and
gray and he looks like a careless artist, thrilling with the soul of song.

Notwithstanding the high wind there is a heavy haze through which the sun casts but faint shadows.
Across the white-flecked river the emerald meadow rises in a mile long slope until it meets
the sky in a mist of silver blue. To the right a big tract of woodland is haloed by a denser
cloud of vivid violet as if the pillar of cloud which led the Israelites by day had rested
there; or as if mingled smoke and incense were rising from Druid altars around the sacred grove.
As a matter of fact, it is a mingling of the ever increasing humidity, the dust particles in
the air and the smoke from many April grass fires. To the left of the meadow there is a sweep
of arable land where disc harrows, seeders, and ploughs are at work. The unsightly corn stalks
of the winter have been laid low, the brown fields are as neat and tidy as if they had been
newly swept; and this is Iowa in April.

Up and down the river the willow leaves are just unfolding, bordering the stream with tender
green. The tassels of the pussy willows, which were white in March, are now rosy and gold,
due to the development of the anthers. The aspens at the front of the wood are thickly hung
with the long yellowish-white tassels and look like masses of floss silk among the tops of
the darker trees. A big cottonwood is at its most picturesque period in the whole year. The
dark red anthers make the myriads of catkins look like elongated strawberries. Tomorrow, or
the next day, these red anthers will break and discharge their yellow pollen and then the tassels
will be golden instead of strawberry-colored. Spring seems to unfold her beauties slowly but
she has something new each day for the faithful.

The ash, the hackberry, the oaks, the linden, the locusts on the hill and the solitary old
honey-locust down by the river's brink are as yet unresponsive to the smiles of spring. The
plum, the crab apple, the hawthorn and the wild cherry are but just beginning to push green
points between their bud scales. But the elms are a glory of dull gold; every twig is fringed
with blossoms. The maples have lost their fleecy white softness, for the staminate flowers
which were so beautiful in March have withered now. But the fruit blossoms remind us of Lowell's
line, "The maple puts her corals on in May." In Iowa he might have made it April instead of
May. But that would have spoiled his verse.

       *       *       *       *       *

For long we sit and drink in the beauty of the scene. Meanwhile the birds on this wooded slope
are asking us to use our ears as well as our eyes. Such a mingling of bird voices! The "spring
o' th' year" of the meadow larks and the mingled squeaks and music of the robins are brought
up by the wind from the river bottom, and the shrill clear "phe-be" of the chickadee is one
of the prettiest sounds now, just as it was in February. Pretty soon a bevy of them come flitting
and talking along, like a girl botany class on the search. Before they have passed out of sight
the loud and prolonged "O-wick-o-wick-o-wick-o-wick" of the flicker makes us lift our eyes
to the top of a scarlet oak and anon three or four of the handsome fellows alight nearer by
so that we may the better admire their white-tailed coats, brown shoulders, scarlet napes and
the beautiful black crescent on their breasts. When we hear the call of the flicker we may
know that spring is here to stay. They are as infallible as the yellow-breasted larks in the
meadows.

"Chip-chip-chip-chip,"--yes, of course that's the chipping sparrow; another of the engaging
creatures which almost has been driven from the habitations of his human friends by the miserable
English sparrows. Often have we seen the little fellow set upon and brutally hurt by these
pirates. Now he stays around rural homes, and his chestnut crown, brown coat mixed with black
and gray, his whitish vest and black bill are always a welcome sight. He takes up the chant
of the year where the departing junco left it off, throws back his tiny head and his little
throat flutters with the oft-repeated syllable, continued rapidly for about four seconds. A
while longer we wait and are rewarded by a few bars of the musicful song of the brown thrasher
who has just arrived with Mrs. Thrasher for two weeks of courtship and song, after which they
will build a new home in the hazel thicket and go to housekeeping.

Just as we are rising to leave there is the glimmer of the blue-bird's wing and the brilliant
fellow and his pretty mate appear at the top of the bank, where the staghorn sumac still bears
its berries. None of the birds of the winter seems to care much for these berries but the bluebirds
evidently love them. As another instance of their tastes in this direction may be mentioned
the fact that for the past three weeks a pair of blue birds have made many visits every day
to a Chinese matrimony vine, by the dining room window of the writer's home. This vine, as
everyone knows, has a wreath of juicy red berries in the fall, which hang through the winter
and are dried, but still red, in the spring. It was the first week of March when the family
first heard the pleasing notes of the blue bird outside the window at breakfast time, and saw
the brilliant male sitting on a post on the back lawn and his less brilliant, but equally attractive
mate sitting on the clothesline. A little later and he flew to the vine, picked off one berry
and ate it, took another one in his mouth and then returned to his post, while she followed
his example. Both chirped and pronounced the berries good, though up to that time the members
of the household had supposed they were poisonous. After a few more bites of the morning meal
the birds went all around the house, inspecting every nook and crevice. But they found every
place fully occupied by the pestiferous English sparrows, who darted at them maliciously. For
two whole days the blue birds stayed around the lawn and garden, but the sparrows made their
lives miserable and finally they went to the timber an eighth of a mile away and selected an
abiding place in the cavity of a basswood. But every morning and evening, sometimes many times
during the day, they came for their meal of berries from the vine. Usually they were on hand
as soon as the sun was up, and a more devoted and well behaved couple was never seen either
in the bird or the human world.

       *       *       *       *       *

We rise at length and walk along the wooded slope admiring new beauties at every step. Here
is a thicket of wild gooseberry filled with dark green leaves and the tinkling notes of tree
sparrows, and we hardly know which is the more beautiful. A little farther and we are in a
tangle of pink and magenta raspberry vines from which the green leaves are just pushing out.
The elder has made a great start; the yellowish-green shoots from the stems and from the roots
are already more than six inches long. The panicled dogwood and the red-osier dogwood (no,
not the flowering dogwood) as yet show no signs of foliage, but the fine white lines in the
bark of the bladdernut, which have been so attractive all winter, are now enhanced by the soft
myrtle green of the tender young leaves. The shrubby red cedar is twice as fresh and green
as it was a month ago, as it hangs down the face of the splintered rock where the farmer boys
have set a trap to catch the mother mink. But Mrs. Mink is wary. Here is a pile of feathers,
evidently from a wild duck, which seems to indicate that while the duck was making a meal of
a fish which she had brought to shore, the mink pounced upon her and ate both duck and fish.

While we stand looking there is a slight movement among the roots of a silver maple at the
river's brink. A moment later Mrs. Mink comes around the tree and towards us. She is about
eighteen inches long, with a bushy tail about another eight inches, her blackish-brown body
about as big round as a big man's wrist, and she has a "business-looking" face and jaw. Did
you ever try to take the young minks from their nest in the latter part of April and did Mrs.
Mink fight? She hasn't seen or smelled us yet, but suddenly when she is within seven feet of
us, there is an upward movement of that supple, snakelike neck, a quick glance of those black
diamond eyes, and she turns at right angles and dives into the river. A frog could not enter
the water so silently.

       *       *       *       *       *

We climb the slope again and pause in front of a big sugar maple, a rather rare sight hereabouts.
The sap-sucker has bored a row of fresh holes in the bark of the tree and the syrup has flowed
out so freely that the whole south side of the tree is wet with it. Scores of wasps, bees and
flies of all sizes and colors are revelling in the sweetness.

Finally we come to where there is less grass but more dead leaves and leaf mould, and here
is the first real herbaceous flower of this spring, the dwarf white trillium, or wake-robin.
How beautiful it looks, its three pure, waxy-white petals, its six golden anthers and three
long styles, and its pretty whorl of three ovate leaves, at the summit of a stem about four
inches high. A little farther and we find a group of them and then other clusters, fresh and
pure and sweet enough to make a bouquet for Euphrosyne.

Oh, but someone says, the hepatica is the first flower of spring; all the nature writers say
so. Well, but they don't seem to say much about the trillium; possibly they haven't found it
so often. Indeed, it seems to be more choice of its location. It is hardly ever, perhaps it
would be safe to say never, found on a southern or a southwestern slope. Almost invariably
it is found on the steep slope of a river bank, facing northeast or east. Hepaticas nearly
always grow on the same slope, but they come into blossom about two days later than the trillium.
But on another bank which faces the noon and the afternoon sun the hepaticas are up with the
trilliums in the calendar of spring. This year the trillium was found blooming, on a northeastern
slope, March 24. At this place the hepatica did not bloom until March 26. But it bloomed March
24, on a southwest slope, fifteen miles away.

By-the-way, the list of March blooming plants for 1908, is probably one of the longest for
years: March 20, aspen; twenty-first, hazel and silver maple; twenty-third, pussy willow, prairie
willow and white elm; twenty-fourth, dwarf white trillium and hepatica (also known as liverleaf,
squirrelcup, and blue anemone); twenty-fifth, slippery elm, cottonwood; twenty-ninth, box elder
and fragrant sumac; thirtieth, dandelion; thirty-first, Dutchman's breeches.

How some of these early flowers secure the perpetuation of their species is an interesting
study for amateur botanists. In the case of the trillium the fruit is a three-lobed reddish
berry, but one has to search for it as diligently as Diogenes did for an honest man before
he finds it. The plant seldom sets seed in this vicinity, but seems to depend rather upon its
tuber-like rootstocks in which the leaves lie curled all through the winter. The hepatica attracts
pollen-feeding flies, female hive-bees and the earliest butterflies, and is thus cross-fertilized
to some extent; but it is thought also to be able to effect self-fertilization. In the case
of the hepatica acutiloba, however, it has been found that staminate flowers grow on one plant
and pistillate flowers on another, hence insects are essential to the perpetuation of this species.

After bringing us the trilliums and hepaticas in numbers, Nature pauses. She means to give
us time to inhale the fragrance of some of the hepaticas, and to learn that other hepaticas
of the same species have no fragrance at all; that there is a variety of delicate colors, white,
pink, purple, lavender, and blue; that the colored parts, which look like petals are really
sepals; that they usually number six, but may be as many as twelve; that there are three small
sessile leaves forming an involucre directly under the flower; that if we search we shall find
some with four, more rare than four-leaved clovers; that the plant which was fragrant last
year will also be fragrant this year; that the furry stems are slightly pungent,--enough to
give spice to a sandwich; these preliminary observations fit us for more intricate problems
later on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spenser, the divinely tongued, pictures April as a lusty youth, riding upon the bull with the
golden horns (Taurus), wading through a flood, and adorned with garlands of the fairest flowers
and buds. A better figure would have been Europa riding Zeus. And Chaucer also makes April
a masculine month:

  "When that Aprille with his schoweres swoote
    The drought of Marche had perced to the roote."

But surely April, with her smiles anl[TN-1] tears, ought to be regarded as a feminine month.
Ovid has shown that she was not named from aperire, to open, as some have supposed, but from
Aphrodite, the Greek name for Venus, goddess of beauty and mother of love. She is chaste, even
cold, but grows sweeter and more affectionate every day and her tears all end in smiles. Her
flowers are pure and mostly white, fitting for a maiden. Look at the list (if the weather is warm):

White or whitish:--Rue-anemone, hepatica, spring beauty, blood-root, toothwort, Dutchman's
breeches, dog's tooth violet, wild ginger, chickweed, Isopyrum, plantain-leaved everlasting,
shepherd's purse, shad-bush, wild strawberry, whitlow-grass, wind-flower, hackberry (greenish
white), false Solomon's seal, catnip, spring cress, wild black currant, wild plum.

Yellow or yellowish:--Marsh marigold, creeping buttercup, marsh buttercup, small-flowered crowfoot,
dandelion, yellow woodsorrel, bell-wort, star-grass, downy yellow violet, pappoose root, lousewort,
prickly ash, hop hornbeam, white oak, mossy-cup oak, butternut, sugar maple.

Purple or blue:--Common blue violet, trillium (recurvatum and erectum) hepatica, Virginian
cowslip (lung-wort or bluebells), woodsorrel, common blue phlox, ground plum.

Green:--The Indian turnip, and several of the sedges.

Pink:--Spring beauty, toothwort, dog's tooth violet, hepatica.

Scarlet:--Columbine.

From this list it ought to be plain that April is a dainty queen, wearing a dress of cheerful
green, a bodice of white, with violets in her hands, pink in her cheeks, and a single scarlet
columbine in her wealth of golden hair, which indeed comes nearly being the portrait of Dione
herself. Or, as one of the poets has better described her:

        April stood with tearful face
    With violets in her hands, and in her hair
    Pale wild anemones; the fragrant lace
    Half-parted from her breast, which seemed like fair,
    Dawn-tinted mountain snow, smooth-drifted there.

In this long list of April flowers--some observers will be able to make it still longer--there
are many favorites. The pretty rue-anemone recalls the tradition that Anemos, the wind, chose
the delicate little flowers of this family as the heralds of his coming in early spring. And
in the legend of Venus and Adonis the anemone is the flower that sprang from the tears of the
queen as she mourned the death of her loved one. Theocritus put the wind-flowers into his Idylls,
and Pliny said that only the wind could open them. The Spring beauty has as rich a legend,
for it was the Indian Miskodeed, left behind when Peboan, the winter, the Mighty One, was melted
by the breath of spring. The toothwort (dentaria laciniata) is sometimes known as the pepper-root,
and every school boy and girl living near the woods is familiar with the taste of its tubers
and the appearance of its cross-shaped flowers. The plumy dicentra, or Dutchman's breeches,
seems so feminine as to be grossly misnamed until we remember that it was first discovered
in the Rip Van Winkle country.

In rocky fields and hillsides and dry open woods, the dwarf everlasting (Antennaria plantaginifolia)
with its silvery-white little florets set in delicate cups, is one of the first species of
the great composite family to bloom.

Even more innocent, fresh and fair, is the bloodroot, with its snowy petals, golden center
and ensanguined root-stock which crimsons the fingers that touch it. This is the herb, so the
legend says, which the Israelites in Egypt dipped in sacrificial blood to mark their doorposts.
As long ago as last November we dug up one of the papery sheaths and found the flower, then
about a half inch long, snugly wrapped in its single leaf; and now the pale green leaf has
pushed up and unfolded, showing the fragile flower in all its beauty.

       *       *       *       *       *

Strange contrasts we see in some of these April flowers. Some of them open their star-like
eyes for a day or two and dot the floor of the woods with beauty and then their little contribution
to the spring is done and they are seen no more until another year. They bring us beauty and
sweetness and then they pass from us, like the sweet and childish but perfect lives we all
have known and loved. In contrast to such as these there is the Jack-in-the-pulpit of the April
woods which has no floral envelope of beauty, no fragrance, no inspiration, so busy is it storing
up its swollen fortunes down in the bank, leaving behind it a tuber so rank and tainted that
even the Indians couldn't eat it until they had first roasted it, then ground it into powder,
and finally made it into a kind of bread. But sordid-lived accumulators, herbaceous and human,
have been with us since the world began. Laban was a monopolist of pretty daughters and fine
live stock,[TN-2] and Theocritus, in his day, was moved to say that "Money is monarch and Master,"
and to exclaim:

   Fools, what gain is a world of wealth in your houses lying?
    Wise men deem that in that dwells not true pleasure of riches,
    But to delight one's soul....
    Only the muses grant unto mortals a guerdon of glory;
    Dead men's wealth shall be spent by the quick that are heirs to
          their riches.

Toward the end of the month, when the gelatinous masses in the water courses have developed
the little black dots sufficiently so that we can see they are tadpoles, when the songsters
have been joined by the catbird, the rose-breasted grosbeak, the woodthrush, the whippoorwill,
the cheerful and friendly chewink and several of the warblers and flycatchers, the rivers and
creeks will be fringed with the brilliant yellow of the marsh marigold, and we shall think
of Shakespeare, walking the meadows of Avon, getting material for that song of the musicians
in Cymbeline:

   And winking Mary-buds begin
    To ope their golden eyes.

And meanwhile the violet, which was among the plants sacred to Aphrodite, was also appealing
to this master poet, who was born this month, as were Wordsworth, George Herbert, John Keble,
Anthony Trollope, David Hume, and Edward Gibbon, and who died this month as did Edward Young,
who wrote Night Thoughts, and Abraham Lincoln, who freed a race and saved a nation. Who can
ever forget the month of Lincoln's death after he has once read that exquisite description
of an April day and the song of the hermit thrush, written by Whitman to commemorate the funeral
of his friend?

The violets have been especially loved by the poets. Theocritus placed them foremost in his
coronals and put them into Thyrsis's song of Daphnis's fatal constancy. Chaucer had them in
his garlands, and Spenser's "flock of nymphes" gather them "pallid blew" in a meadow by the
river side. In Percy's Reliques they are the "violets that first appear, by purple mantles
known." Milton allows Zephyr to find Aurora lying "on beds of violet blue." Shakespeare places
them upon Ophelia's grave and says they are "sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes." Wordsworth,
Tennyson, and all our own poets have loved them.

       *       *       *       *       *

But we have lingered too long among our flowers and thoughts in the April woods. The filmy
haze which veiled the sun has thickened into threatening clouds, and as we look across the
meadow to where the silver blue haze rested on the delectable mountain in the morning we see
instead the rain-fringe, veiling and obscuring the landscape. The wind has died to a dead calm
and the river is still. As the shower comes nearer the whole landscape is shrouded in an ever
darkening gray and presently big round drops splash upon the surface of the river. In a moment
we are surrounded by the rain. How beautiful is the first spring rain! It does not run down
the slope as in the winter when the ground was frozen, but the thirsty earth seems eager to
drink every drop. The unfolding leaves of the shrubs are bathed in it and the tender firstlings
of the flowers are revelling in it. It dims the singing of the birds, but the robins and the
meadow larks carol on and the spring music of the frogs in the nearby pond has not yet ceased.

What makes the raindrops round? And why are the drops at the beginning of the shower much larger
than those which follow? We do not know. Perhaps it is well. Walt Whitman says that "you must
not know too much or be too scientific about these things." He holds that a little indefiniteness
adds to the enjoyment, a hazy borderland of thought as it were, like that which rests in April
mornings on enchanted highlands away across the river, which we have never yet--as Thoreau
says--"tarnished with our feet."

And, anyway, before we can reason it out, the rain has ceased and the last rays of the descending
sun come through an opening in the clouds in that beautiful phenomenon known as a "sunburst.'[TN-3]
The white beams come diagonally through the moisture-laden air, as if in a good-night smile
to the tender flowers and buds.

Warming with the sunshine and watering with the showers--that is Miss April making her flower
garden grow.

MAY--PERFECTION OF BEAUTY

V. MAY--PERFECTION OF BEAUTY

   Among the changing months May stands confessed
    The sweetest and in fairest colors dressed.
                                --THOMSON.

Surely the poet sang truly. We would not forget Lowell's challenge "What is so rare as a day
in June," but as we sit here on the top of a limestone cliff nearly a hundred feet above the
bed of the creek, and watch the red sun brightening the gray of the eastern sky, while the
robins and the meadow larks are singing joyous matins we steep our senses in the delicate colorings
of earth and sky that signalize the awakening of another day and the real revival of another
year. April was encouraging, but there were many bare boughs and many of the last year's leaves
still clung to the oaks and made a conspicuous feature of the landscape. The leafy month of
June will show us more foliage, but it will be of a darker and more uniform shade of green.
Now, as the sun rises higher and sends his rays through both the woodlands and the brushlands
we thrill with delight at the kaleidoscope of color. There are no withered leaves to mar the
beauty now. Seen in mass, and at a distance, the woodlands are a soft cinerous purple. But
the tops, where the ruddy rays of the sun are glancing, are a hazy cloud of tender green, pink,
yellow and pale purple. Nearer trees show in their opening leaves pale tints of the same gorgeous
colors which we see in the fall. The maple keys and the edges of the tender leaves glow blood-red
in the morning sun. The half-developed leaves of the birch and the poplar are a yellowish-green,
not unlike the yellow which they show in autumn. The neatly plaited folds of the leaves of
the oak display a greenish or cinerous purple, a soft and delicate presentment of the stronger
colors which come in October, just as the overture gives us faint voicings of the beauty which
the opera is to bring; just as Lowell's organist gives us

          "The faint auroral flushes sent
    Along the wavering vista of his dream."

The edge of the cliff is lined with shad-trees. Each twig is a plume of feathery dainty white
The drooping racemes of white blossoms, with the ruby and early-falling bracts among them look
like gala decorations to fringe the way of Flora as she travels up the valley. The shad-trees
have blossomed rather late. In them and under them it is fully spring. There is a sound of
bees and a sense of sweetness which make us forget all the cold days and think only of the
glory of the coming summer. There comes a song sparrow and perches on one of the twigs. He
throws back his little head, opens his mouth and pours forth a flood of melody. Next comes
a myrtle warbler, eager to show us the yellow on his crown, on his two sides and the lower
part of his back. He is one of the most abundant of the warblers and one of the most charming
and fearless. He perches on a hop hornbeam tree from which the catkins have just shed their
yellow pollen and goes over it somewhat after the manner of a chickadee or a nuthatch, showing
us as he does so the white under his chin, the two heavy black marks below that, the two white
cross bars on his wings, and his coat of slate color, striped and streaked with black. He goes
over every twig of the little tree and then flies off to another, first pausing, however, to
give his little call note "tschip, tschip" and then his little song, "Tschip-tweeter-tweeter."
A pair of kingfishers, showing their blue wings and splendid crests, fly screaming down the
creek. Their nest is in a tunnel four feet in the clay banks on the opposite side.

Purple finches, a bit late in the season, are feeding on the seeds of the big elm. The snows
of late April and early May must have delayed their journey northward. When the bird-designer
made this bird he set out to make a different kind of sparrow, but then had pity upon the amateur
ornithologist who finds the sparrows even now almost as difficult to classify as the amateur
botanists do their asters; so he dipped the bird in some raspberry juice--John Burroughs says
pokeberry juice--and the finch came out of the dye with a wash of raspberry red on his head,
shoulders and upper breast, brightest on the head and the lower part of his back. Otherwise
he looks much like an English sparrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now the belated April flowers are seen at their best, mingled with many of the May arrivals.
It is such a day as that when Bryant wrote "The Old Man's Counsel." On the sloping hillsides,
around the leafing hazel "gay-circles of anemones dance on their stalks." In the more open
places the little wind flower, with its pretty leaves and solitary white blossoms, blooms in
cheerful companionship with its fellows, and the more sterile parts of the hillside are snowed
with the white plumes of the plantain-leaved everlasting. Downy yellow violets and the common
blue violets grow everywhere and down on the sand near the river the birdfoot violet, with
its quaintly cut leaves and handsome blossoms grows abundantly for the children who love to
gather the "sand violets." On the bottom which was flooded in March the satiny yellow flowers
of the marsh buttercup shine and the beautiful green of the uplands is spotted with the pure
gold of the buttercup. There is no longer need to be satisfied with a few pretty flowers. May
scatters her brightest and best in abundance. On the rocky slopes the wild ginger shows its
red-brown, long-eared urns, the white baneberry its short white plumes, the branchlets of the
bladdernut are breaking into white clusters and columbine soon will "sprinkle on the rocks
a scarlet rain" as it did in Bayard Taylor's time, although the "scarlet rain," like that of
the painted cup in the lowlands, grows less and less each year. The white glory of the plum
thickets at its height and the hawthornes, whose young leaves have been a picture of pink and
red, will soon break into blossom and vie with the crabapple thickets in calling attention
to the beauty of masses of color when arranged by the Master Painter.

       *       *       *       *       *

The carpet of the woodlands grows softer and thicker, and more varied each day. Ferns and brakes
are coming thickly. The flowers grow more splendid. The large, wholesome looking leaves of
the blue bell are a fitting setting for the masses of bloom which show pink in the bud, then
purple, and lastly a brilliant blue. Jack-in-the-pulpits make us smile with keen pleasure as
memories of happy childhood days come crowding thickly upon us. The pretty pinnate leaves of
the blue-flowered polemonium are sufficient explanation for the common name Jacobs-ladder,
even though that name does not properly belong to our species. The purple trilliums, like the
Dutchman's breeches, felt the effects of the many April and early May frosts but now they are
coming into their beauty. Great colonies of umbrella-leaved May-apple are breaking into white
flowers. The broad, lily-like leaves of the true and false Solomon's seal are even more attractive
than their blossoms. Ferns, bellwort, wild sarsaparilla, all help to soften our footfalls,
while overhead the light daily grows more subdued as the leaf-buds break and the leaves unfold.
The throb of the year's life grows stronger. All the blossoms and buds which were formed last
summer now break quickly into beauty. And, already, before the year has fairly started, there
are signs of preparation for the following year. The dandelion is pushing up its fairy balloons,
waiting for the first breeze. The shepherd's purse already shows many mature seeds below its
little white blossoms. The keys of the soft maple will soon be ready to fall and send out rootlets,
and the winged seeds of the white elm already lie thickly beneath the leafing branches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Each flower invites admiration and study. Dig up the root of the Solomon's seal, a rootstock,
the botanists call it. It is long, more or less thickened and here and there is a circular
scar which marks the place from which former stems have arisen. When these leaf-bearing stems
die down they leave on this rootstock down in the ground, a record of their having lived. The
scar looks something like a wax seal and the man who gave the plant the name of Solomon's seal
had probably read that tale in the Arabian Nights, where King Solomon's seal penned up the
giant genie who had troubled the fishermen.

Then there's the May-apple. Who does not remember his childhood days when he pulled the little
umbrellas? Even now as they come up in little colonies, they call up memories of the fairy
tales of childhood and we almost expect to see a fairy, or a brownie, or Queen Mab herself,
coming from under them, when the summer shower, which makes their tops so beautifully moist
gray, has passed. And they also bring to mind that charming first edition of Dr. Gray's botany,
which had in it much of the man's humor as well as his learning. Too bad that the learned scientists
who succeeded him have cut it out. "Common Honesty, very rare in some places," he wrote, speaking
of that plant. "Ailanthus, Tree of Heaven, flowers smell of anything but heaven," was his comment
on the blossoms of our picturesque importation from China. And when he came to the May-apple
he wrote that the sweetish fruit was "eaten by pigs and boys." This made William Hamilton Gibson
remember his own boyish gorgings and he wrote: "Think of it boys.

Another interesting plant is the trillium erectum, which with the trillium recurvatum, is now
to be found in the woods hereabouts. The flowers of the trillium erectum are ill scented, carrion
scented, if you please. Now the botanists have found that this odor, which is so unpleasant
to the human nostrils, does the plant a real service by attracting the common green flesh-flies,
such as are seen in the butchershops in the summer-time. They eat the pollen, which is supposed
to taste as it smells and thus as they go from flower to flower they carry pollen from one
blossom to another and so secure for the plant cross-pollination.

So we may walk from one flower to another until the morning wears to a bright noon and the
afternoon wanes into a songful sunset.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the swamp, where the red-winged blackbird is building her bulky nest between the stems of
the cat tail, and the prairie marsh wren is making her second or third little globular nest
in a similar place, there is a blaze of yellow from the marsh marigolds which make masses of
succulent stems and leaves, crowned with pale gold, as far up the marsh as the eye can reach.
And it is in late April or early May that "the robin is plastering his house hard by." By the
way, ought not the poet to have made it "her" house? It is the mother bird who seems to do
the plastering. Both birds work on the structure, but it appears to be the female who carries
most of the mud and who uses her faded red apron for a trowel as she moves round in her nest
pushing her breast against the round wall of the adobe dwelling to spread the mud evenly. The
work on one particular nest was done in late April when there was nothing on the elm but the
seed fringes to screen the builder as she worked. Then the four light greenish-blue eggs were
laid. A red squirrel got one of them one day. Disregarding the squeakings and scoldings of
the anxious robins, he sat on a limb holding the egg in his forepaws and bit a hole in one
side of it. Then he drained the contents, dropped the shell to the ground and was about to
get another egg when he was driven off. Apparently he forgot the location of the nest after
that, for the other three eggs hatched out safely.

       *       *       *       *       *

The air is filled with bird music. It began with the larks, closely followed by the robins,
and then the noise of the crows. No change in the program since the days of Shakespeare's Troilus
and Cressida when:

                "The busy day
    Wak'd by the lark, hath roused the ribald crows."

Then came the liquid notes of the cowbirds, like the pouring of mingled molasses and olive
oil. Three handsome fellows in ebony and dark brown sit on the branch of a tall elm and just
beneath them sit three brownish gray females, all in a row. Cowbird No. 1 comes nearer the
end of the branch, ruffles out his head as if he were about to have a sick spell and then emits
that famous molasses and oil kind of whistle, sufficient to identify the cowbird anywhere.
The other males repeat his example and meanwhile the females look on with approving eyes, as
if it was a vaudeville performance by amateurs in polite society. The cowbirds, male and female,
are all free lovers. There is no mating among them. The female lays her eggs in some other
bird's nest, like the English cuckoo, as if she were too busy with the duties and pleasures
of society to care for her own children.

A diskcissel[TN-4] sits on a tree instead of a reed or a bush as usual and sings "See, see,
Dick Cissel, Cissel." Chewinks are down scratching among the dry leaves with the white-throated
sparrows, their strong-muscled legs sending the leaves flying as if a barnyard hen were doing
the scratching. A beautiful hermit thrush is near but he is silent. The chewink in his harlequin
suit of black, white, and chestnut varies his sharp and cheerful "Chewink" with a musical little
strain, "Do-fah, fah-fah-fah-fah," and one of the white-throated sparrows now and then stops
feeding and flies up to a hazel twig to give his sweet and plaintive little "pea-a-body, peabody,
peabody." Very pretty, but not so beautiful as the three broad white stripes on his crown and
the white choker under his chin.

Suddenly a brown thrasher breaks into a melody from the top of a wild cherry, and then it is
as if a famous operatic coloratura soprano had joined the village choir. For power and continuity
of song he is without a peer. With head erect and long tail pendant he pours forth such a flood
of melody, so varied and so sweet that we forget the exquisite hymn-like notes of the wood-thrush
and yield ourselves wholly to the spell of his rich recital. Make the most of it while it lasts.
Like all the glories of the May woods it is evanescent. When the nest down in the brush is
finished, and his mate "feels the eggs beneath her wings," his song will grow less full and
rich and by the time the young birds come he will have grown silent, as if weighed down with
the responsibilities of a family.

We get too near the thrasher for his liking and he slips down into the brush. And then, by
rare good fortune, a blue-bird begins his song. He has been chided by some because he has a
magnificent contralto voice and scarcely ever uses it. Have we not been taught to chide the
man who hides his talent in a napkin, or his light under a bushel? But how he can sing when
he does sing! This is one of the mornings. The rich contralto thrush-like melody, with its
ever recurring "sol-la," "sol-la," fills the woodlands with beauty. It is as if the pearly
gates had been opened for a brief interval to let the earth hear the "quiring of the young-eyed
cherubims."

       *       *       *       *       *

In later May, the season "betwixt May and June," beauty and fragrance and melody comes in a
rich flood. The flaming breast of the oriole and the wondrous mingling of colors in the multiplied
warblers glint like jewels among the ever enlarging leaves. The light in the woodlands becomes
more subdued and the carpet of ferns and flowers grows richer and more beautiful. The vireos,
the cardinal and the tanager add to the brilliancy and the ovenbird and veery to the melody.

       *       *       *       *       *

The beauty of the world is at every man's door, if he will only pause to see. It offers every
man real riches if only he will now and then quit his muckraking or pause from paying his life
for a cap and bells. It sweetens honest labor, helps earthly endeavor, strengthens human affection
and leads the soul naturally from the beauty of this world to the greater beauty of that which
is to come.

WALKS IN JUNE WOODS AND FIELDS

VI. WALKS IN JUNE WOODS AND FIELDS.

   Whether we look or whether we listen
    We can hear life murmur or see it glisten.
                             --LOWELL.

As we walk along the bank of the creek on a warm afternoon in June we realize how true are
these lines of Lowell. The frog chorus is dying down, though now and then we catch sight of
a big fellow blowing out his big balloon throat and filling the air with a hoarse bass, while
another across the creek has a bagpipe apparently as big but pitched in a higher key. Two months
ago one could not get near enough to see this queer inflation, but now the frogs do not seem
so shy. Garter snakes wiggle through the grass down the bank of the creek and the crickets
are just beginning to chirp the love chorus which is soon to swell incessantly till the fall
frosts come. Butterflies, dragon flies, saw flies and gall flies are busy and we see evidences
of their work in the crimson galls on the willow leaves and the purple-spotted oak apples,
some of which have fallen to the ground from the scarlet oak above. Nature's first great law
is the perpetuation of species, and everything we see in the June woods and fields, from the
giant white oak to the busy ant, is diligently obeying that law. The red-winged blackbird circles
over our heads with sharp, anxious chirps, for we have disturbed the young red-wings down in
the sedge who are taking their first lessons in flying. The catbird's nest, with four greenish-blue
eggs, is in a wild gooseberry bush and the catbird is up among the shad-trees feasting on the
ripening June berries. The gentle notes of soft pedal music come floating sweetly down. Did
you ever stop long enough to listen to the full song of the catbird? First, the brilliant,
ringing strains, often softening into a subdued sympathetic melody, and then, just as the music
seems almost divine, the long cat-like squeal which ends it all--much like an old organist
and choirmaster of boyhood days who used to break in with a horrible discord at the lower end
of the keyboard when the anthem rehearsal wasn't going to his liking.

A fruit-lover is the catbird, beginning with the June berries on the banks of streams near
which she often builds her nest and continuing with wild strawberries, blackberries, wild grapes
and the berries of the Virginia creeper--sometimes also seen busily scooping out a big hole
on the rosy side of a tempting apple in the orchard. Some observers say the catbird eats the
eggs of the fly-catcher and other birds, but this must be seen to be believed.

There comes an outbreak of melody from the top of a tall black willow, much like the tones
of the robin and yet suggestive of the warbling vireo, but finer than the former, clearer,
louder and richer than the latter. We lift our eyes and see the pointed carmine shield of the
rose-breasted grosbeak, one of the most beautiful, useful and music-full birds in the forest
or the garden. Many mornings and evenings during the month of May one of these handsome fellows
was busy in my garden, diligently picking the potato bugs from the young vines, stopping now
and then, especially in his morning visits, to pour out a happy, ringing lyric and to show
his handsome plumage. On one occasion he took a couple of potato bugs in his "gros" beak as
he flew to the nearby woodland, probably a tempting morsel for his spouse's breakfast. A bird
that can sing better than a warbling vireo, whose carmine breast is comparable only to the
rich, red rose of June, who picks bugs from potato vines, singing chansons meanwhile and who
is so good to his wife that he does a large share of the incubation, and takes largely upon
himself the care of their children is surely a "rara avis" and worth having for a friend. He
is a typical bird of June. His color matches the June roses, his songs are full and sweet and
rich as the June days, and the eggs of his soberly dressed spouse are usually laid and hatched
in June. There is a nest in a hawthorn bush where the wild grape twines her crimson-green clusters
and by the time the blossoms break and fill the air with fragrance, no accidents coming meanwhile,
four young grosbeaks will be the pride of as warm a paternal heart as ever beat in bird or
human breast.

Perceiving that we are watching him the grosbeak ceases his ringing tones and drops into that
dreamy, soft, melodious warble, which is characteristic of this songster as it is of the catbird.
But he leaves when a belted kingfisher comes screaming along the stream.

       *       *       *       *       *

But there is more of interest on the willow. Unseen till now, no fewer than three nighthawks
are squatted lengthwise on its lower limbs, two on one limb and one on another. Strange we
did not see them before, but the explanation is the grosbeak was singing. They are as motionless
and apparently lifeless as if they had been mummified or petrified for a thousand years. Their
mottled back and rusty feathers, their heads drawn down and eyes almost closed, make them look
like uncanny visitants from beyond the Styx. Poe's raven was not so ominous and strangely silent;
these will not say even the one word, "Nevermore." They look like relics of a Saturnian reign
before beauty and music and joy were known upon the earth. If there were charred stumps of
trees in the Bracken which was shown to Faust, we should expect to see nighthawks squatted
on them, wholly indifferent to the lamentations of lost souls. We go directly under the branch
where one of them is sitting ten feet above and still he makes no sign. We throw a clod, but
yet there is no movement of his wings. Not till a stick hits the limb close to where he is
sitting does he stretch his long wings with their telltale white spots and fly rapidly away.
And the other two sit unmoved. But some night we hear the whirr of the nighthawk's wings as
he drops rapidly from a great height, or we see him skimming close to the surface of the stream
in search of insects in some twilight hour and then he is the embodiment of strength, agility,
and swiftness. And some day we perchance find the two dirt colored eggs on the bare ground,
or the tiny young, like bits of rabbit fur, with only the earth beneath them and the sky above
them, apparently as deserted and destitute as Romulus and Remus; and all this adds wonderfully
to our interest in this strange bird, which is so common in the June woods.

The whip-poor-will is much like the nighthawk. Both are of about the same size and color. Both
sit lengthwise on limbs. Both are weird creatures that sleep by day and hunt by night. But
the nighthawk has a V-shaped patch of white on his throat; the large mouth of the whip-poor-will
is fringed with bristles. The nighthawk has a patch of white extending through his long wings;
the whip-poor-will has none. The nighthawk is not usually heard after the twilight hours; the
whip-poor-will is heard much later. The whip-poor-will calls its name aloud, sometimes startlingly
close to the chamber window; the nighthawk only screams.

       *       *       *       *       *

We cautiously approach a sand flat and are fortunate to see one of the sights of a lifetime.
The mud turtle is preparing to lay her eggs in the moist sand. She digs the hole almost entirely
with her hind feet, using first one and then the other, working rapidly for perhaps eight or
ten minutes until the hole is about six inches in diameter and apparently about three or four
inches deep. Then she draws in her head, and drops, at intervals of two or three minutes, five
eggs into the hole. That done, she scrapes the moist sand back into the hole, pressing it and
patting it from time to time with her hind feet. This process takes much longer than digging
the hole. When it is done to her satisfaction she waddles towards the creek. You might have
some trouble to find the eggs but the skunk often gets them. Does the mother turtle watch over
them till they are hatched by the sun or is it a mere picked-up crowd of youngsters that we
sometimes see in the early fall sitting with her on a boulder in the pond?

       *       *       *       *       *

We follow the scarlet tanager up a wide glen where wholesome smelling brake grows almost shoulder
high. Suddenly there comes from our feet a sharp, painful cry, as of a human being in distress,
and the ruffed grouse, commonly called pheasant, leaves her brood of tiny, ginger-yellow chicks--eight,
ten, twelve--more than we can count,--little active bits of down about the size of a golf ball,
scattering here, there, and everywhere to seek the shelter of bush, bracken, or dried leaves,
while their mother repeats that plaintive whine, again and again, as she tries to lead us up
the hillside away from them. When we look for them again they are all safely hidden; not one
can be seen. The mother desperately repeats her whining cry to entice us away and we walk on
up to the top of the hill and away to relieve her anxiety. Anon we hear her softly clucking
as she gathers her scattered brood.

The scarlet tanager's nest is on the horizontal limb of a big white oak. But it is not the
familiar, striking, scarlet, black-winged bird, which sits on the ragged nest. The female is
dressed in sober olive-green above and olive-yellow below, with dusky wings and tail. Probably
many an amateur has found this bird down by the river and tried to classify her among the fly-catchers
until the coming of her handsome husband caused him to remember that in birdland it is usually
only the male part of the population which wears the handsome clothes, just as the Indian braves
wear the gaudiest paint and the showiest feathers. It is not till we get to the higher stages
of civilization that this rule is reversed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The foliage of the June woods has not the delicacy of tints which was so exquisite in May,
nor the strength of color which will be so striking in September. But it has a beauty no less
admirable. The chlorophyll in the leaf-cells is now at its prime and the leaves very closely
approach a pure green, especially those of the sycamore, which is the nearest to a pure green
of any tree in the forest. Standing in the wood road which runs along the top of a timbered
crest we look across a broad, wooded valley where the leaves seem to exhale a soft, yellowish
green in the bright sunlight. Beyond and above them, five miles away, and yet apparently very
near, a belt of bluish green marks the timber fringe of the next water course. Still farther,
another unseen stretch of corn land intervening, the forest crowned ridge meets the soft sky
in a line of lavender, as if it were a strata cloud lying low on the horizon. From this distance
the lavender and purple are almost changeless every sunny day the year around. Always the Enchanted
Land and the Delectable Mountains over across the valley. How like the alluring prospect across
the valley of years! Always the same soft lavender haze there, while the woods here run through
all the gamut of color, from the downy pinks and whites and the tender greens of spring through
the deeper greens of summer to the crimson and scarlet of the fall, and the russets, grays,
and coffee-browns of the winter. When the foliage of the forest has deepened into one dark
shade of verdure then we know that June is far spent, spring has gone and summer is here. The
uniform green is not monotonous. See the woods in the hour before sunset when the slanting
light gives the foliage consummate glory. See them again in the white light of a clear noon
when the glazed leaves seem to reflect a white veil over the pure verdure; and again when the
breeze ripples through the leafy canopy, showing the silvery under-surfaces of the maple leaves,
the neat spray of the river birches, the deeply cleft leaves of the scarlet oak and the finely
pinnate leaves of the honey locust. Each has a glory now peculiar to itself and to June.

There is much beauty of color in the woodland undergrowth. Tall torches touched with the crimson
of the sunset sky are made of the shell-bark hickory whose inner bud scales enlarge into enormous,
leathery bracts, often crimsoning into rare brilliance. Circles of creamy white here and there
among the hazel brush mark the later blossoms of the sweet viburnum. Sweeping curves like sculptured
arms bearing thickly clustered hemispheres of purplish white are seen on the rocky slope where
the nine-bark grows above the lingering columbines. White wands which look so beautiful are
merely the ends of the common tall blackberry, and the wild rose sweetens the same banks. Flattish
clusters of creamy white blossoms are the loose cymes of the red osier dogwood, but it is not
nearly so beautiful now as it was last January when its blood-red stems made a striking contrast
with the snow. The bright carmine bark has faded to a dull green and the shrub is a disappointment
now, despite its blossoms. So is the cottonwood a disappointment. Its wealth of shining green
foliage is beautiful, yet we sigh for the lost glory of the midwinter days when the horizontal
rays of the setting sun made aureoles of golden light around its yellow, shining limbs.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is worth while on a walk in June to sit and look at the grass. How tame and dreary would
be the landscape without it! How soul starved would have been mankind, condemned to live without
the restfulness of its unobtrusive beauty! That is why the first command, after the waters
had been gathered into one place and the dry land appeared, was, "Let the earth bring forth
grass." The grasses cover the earth like a beautiful garment from Kerguelen land in the Antarctic
regions to the extreme limit of vegetation beyond the Polar circle. They climb the Andes, the
Rockies, and the Himalayas to the very line of eternal snow, and they creep to the bottom of
every valley where man dares set his foot. They come up fresh and green from the melting snows
of earliest spring and linger in sunny autumn glens when all else is dead and drear. They give
intense interest to the botanist as he remembers that there are thirty-five hundred different
species, a thousand of which are in North America and a fourth of that number in our own state.
They give him delightful studies as he patiently compares their infinite variations of culms
and glumes, spikes, racemes, and panicles. They give joy to the farmer with their wealth of
protein and fat and albuminoid, the material to do the work and make the wealth of the world
bulging from their succulent stems. And they are fascinating most of all to the nature-lover
as he sees them gently wave in the June sunshine or flow like a swift river across the field
before a quick gust of wind. Such variety of color! Here an emerald streak and there a soft
blue shadow, yonder a matchless olive green, and still farther a cool gray: spreading like
an enamel over the hillside where the cattle have cropped them, and waving tall and fine above
the crimsoning blossoms of the clover; glittering with countless gems in the morning dews and
musicful with the happy songs and call notes of the quail and prairie chicken, the meadow lark,
the bob-o-link, and the dickcissel whose young are safe among the protection of the myriad
stems. Tall wild rice and wild rye grow on the flood-plain and by the streams where the tall
buttercups shine like bits of gold and the blackbirds have their home; bushy blue stem on the
prairies and in the open woods where the golden squaw weed and the wild geranium make charming
patterns of yellow and pink and purple and some of the painted cup left over from May still
glows like spots of scarlet rain; tall grama grass on the dry prairies and gravelly knolls,
whitened by the small spurge and yellowed by the creeping cinquefoil; nodding fescue in the
sterile soils where the robin's plantain and the sheep sorrel have succeeded the early everlasting;
satin grasses in the moist soil of the open woodlands where the fine white flowers of the Canada
anemone blow, and slough grass in the marshy meadows where the white-crossed flowers of the
sharp spring are fading, and the woolly stem of the bitter boneset is lengthening; reed grass
and floating manna grass in the swamps where the broad arrow leaves of the sagittaria fringe
the shore and the floating leaves and fragrant blossoms of the water lilies adorn the pond.
The three days' rain beginning with a soft drizzle and increasing into a steady storm which
drives against the face with cutting force and shakes in sheets like waving banners across
the wind-swept prairie only adds more variety to the beauties of the grass; and when the still,
sweet morning comes, the pure green prairies make us feel that all stain of sin and shame has
been washed from the world.

Where the grasses grow the best, there Providence has provided most abundantly for the wealth
and the comfort of mankind. The rich verdure of the meadows is the visible sign of the fruitful
soil beneath the fattening clouds above. The clover and the early hay fill the June fields
with fragrance and the grass in the parks and lawns invite toil-worn bodies to rest and comfort.
What wonder Bryant wished to die in June, the month when the grasses tenderly creep over the
mounds above tired dust and gently soothe the grief of the loved ones left behind.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cold May seemed to detract little from the beauty and interest of the woodlands. The warblers,
the humming bird, the tanager, the bob-o-link, the ovenbird, the vireos, the chat, the red
start, the oriole, the dickcissel, the black-billed cuckoo, all greeted their friends as numerously
as ever. So with the flowers: the columbine, the shooting star, the painted cup, the puccoon,
the beautiful though inodorous large white trillium, the delicate little corydalis, the star
grass and the lady's slipper, all came within a week of their average time in spite of the
cold, and the showy orchis was only just over into June. May added fifty-four new species of
flowers to the April list, according to the record of a single observer whose leisure is limited.
Those who added the forty odd May arrivals in bird land to their April lists may have no such
thrilling walks in June, but they may study their feathered friends of the summer, which is
better, and if passion for new lists is not satiated, try the flowers instead of the birds.
June should yield a list of a hundred twenty-five different species, not including the grasses,
and a very diligent flower-lover will make it much longer.

The following typographical errors were maintained in this version of this book.

     Page   Error
TN-1  21    anl should read and
TN-2  23    live stock for livestock
TN-3  31    "sunburst.' has the wrong type of close quote
TN-4  47    diskcissel should read dickcissel

Inconsistent hyphenation:

bell-wort / bellwort blood-root / bloodroot blue-bird / blue bird fly-catchers / flycatchers
music-full / musicful root-stock / rootstock whip-poor-will / whippoorwill wood-thrush / woodthrush

