The wife lives to realize the ideal of the "ladylike"--lady she resigns to the patrician--and
she insists upon a servant, however small. This poor wretch of a servant, often a mere child
of fourteen or fifteen, lives by herself in a minute kitchen, and sleeps in a fireless attic.
To escape vulgar associates, the children of the house avoid the elementary schools--the schools
called in America public schools--where there are trained, efficient teachers, good apparatus,
and an atmosphere of industry, and go to one of those wretched dens of disorderly imposture,
a middle-class school, where an absolute failure to train or educate is seasoned with religious
cant, lessons in piano- playing, lessons in French "made in England," mortarboard caps for
the boys, and a high social tone. And to emphasize the fact of its social position, this bookless,
bathless family tips! The plumber touches his hat for a tip, the man who moves the furniture,
the butcher-boy at Christmas, the dustman; these things also, the respect and the tip, at their
minimum dimensions. Everything is at its minimum dimensions, it is the last chipped, dwarfed,
enfeebled state of a tradition that has, in its time, played a fine part in the world. This
much of honour still clings to it, it will endure no tip, no charity, no upper-class control
of its privacy. This is the sort of home in which the minds of thousands of young Englishmen
and Englishwomen receive their first indelible impressions. Can one expect them to escape the
contagion of its cramped pretentiousness, its dingy narrowness, its shy privacy of social degradation,
its essential sordidness and inefficiency?

Our skilled operative, on the other hand, will pocket his tip. He is on the other side of the
boundary. He presents a rising element coming from the servile mass. Probably his net income
equals or exceeds the shopman's, but there is no servant, no black coat and silk hat, no middle-class
school in his scheme of things. He calls the shopman "Sir," and makes no struggle against his
native accent. In his heart he despises the middle class, the mean tip-givers, and he is inclined
to overrate the gentry or big tippers. He is much more sociable, much noisier, relatively shameless,
more intelligent, more capable, less restrained. He is rising against his tradition, and almost
against his will. The serf still bulks large in him. The whole trend of circumstance is to
substitute science for mere rote skill in him, to demand initiative and an intelligent self-adaptation
to new discoveries and new methods, to make him a professional man and a job and pieceworker
after the fashion of the great majority of professional men. Against all these things the serf
element in him fights. He resists education and clings to apprenticeship, he fights for time-
work, he obstructs new inventions, he clings to the ideal of short hours, high pay, shirk and
let the master worry. His wife is a far more actual creature than the clerk's; she does the
house herself in a rough, effectual fashion, his children get far more food for mind and body,
and far less restraint. You can tell the age of the skilled operative within a decade by the
quantity of books in his home; the younger he is the more numerous these are likely to be.
And the younger he is the more likely he is to be alive to certain general views about his
rights and his place in the social scale, the less readily will his finger go to his cap at
the sight of broad-cloth, or his hand to the proffered half-crown. He will have listened to
Trade Union organizers and Socialist speakers; he will have read the special papers of his
class. The whole of this home is, in comparison with the shopman's, wide open to new influences.
The children go to a Board School, and very probably afterwards to evening classes--or music-halls.