She shook her head. "No, it isn't that."

He stooped and looked into her face. "Then what keeps you?"

She looked up slowly.

"My honor."

"Your honor!" For a moment her answer seemed to have him by surprise. He mused, and again it
came dreamily back to her that he was looking at her across a vast difference no will of hers
could ever bridge.

"Don't you see what I am?" she murmured. "Can't you imagine where I stand in this hideous business?
It's my trust. I'm on their side; and, oh, in spite of everything, I can't make myself believe
in giving it to you!"

He pondered this very gravely.

"Yes, I can see how you might feel that way. But is the feeling really yours? Are you sure
they haven't put it on you? Might not my honor do as well for you, if you were mine?" It struck
her she had never connected him with honor, and he read her thought with a flash of humor.
"Evidently it hasn't occurred to you that I have an honor."

She looked at him sadly. "In spite of everything I'm on the other side. I belong to them."

"You belong to me." His hand closed on hers. "Mine is the only honor you have to think of.
Can't you trust that I am right? Can't you see it through my eyes? Can't you make yourself
all mine?" His arm was around her now, holding her fast, but she turned her face away, and
his kisses fell only on her cheek and hair.

"Oh," she cried, "if only I could!"

"Don't you love me?"

"Oh, yes, but that makes me see, all the more, the dreadful difference between us."

"You silly child, there is no difference, really."

"Ah, yes, you know it as well as I. You were afraid of it, too. All that long time you were
walking around you were wondering whether you dared to take me."

He denied her steadily, "Never!"

She loved him for that gallant denial, for she knew he had been afraid, horribly afraid, more
afraid than she was now; but that strange quality of his that gave to a double risk a double
zest had set him all the hotter on this resolution.

He sat for some long moments thoughtfully looking straight before him. She, glancing at his
profile, white and faintly glimmering in the twilight, thought it looked sharp, absorbed and
set. She could see his great determination growing there in the gloom between them, looming
and overshadowing them both.

"I see," he said at last. "I'll simply have to take you in spite of it." He turned around to
her, and reached his hands down through the dusk. She was being drawn up into arms which she
could not see. Her hands were clasped around a neck, her cheek was against a face which she
had never hoped to touch. Her reason and her fears were stifled and caught away from her lips
with her breath. She was giving up to her awful weakness. She was giving up to the power of
love. She was letting herself sink into it as she would sink into deep water. The sense of
drowning in this profound, unfathomable element, of shutting her eyes and opening her arms
to it, was the highest she had ever touched; but all at once the memory of what she was leaving
behind her, like a last glimpse of sky, swept her with fear. She made a desperate effort to
rescue herself before the waters quite closed over her head.

She pulled herself free. Without his arms around her for the first moment she could hardly
stand. She took an uncertain step forward; then with a rush she reached the white curtains.
They flapped behind her. She heard Kerr laugh, a note, quiet, caressing, almost content. It
came from the gloom like a disembodied voice of triumph. Her rush had carried her into the
middle of the anteroom. At this last moment was there to be no miracle to save her? There was
no rescue among these dumb walls and closed-up windows. The purple child gave her a sharp,
bird-like glance, as if the most that this wild woman could want was "change." Flora looked
behind her and saw Kerr, who had put aside the curtains and was standing looking at her. He
was bright and triumphant in that twilight room. He was not afraid of losing her now. He knew
in that one moment he had imprisoned her for ever! She saw him approaching, but though all
her mind and spirit strained for flight, something had happened to her will. It tottered like
her knees.

He stooped and picked up an artificial rose, which had fallen from her hat, and put it into
her hand. A moment, with his head bent, he stood looking into her face, but without touching her.

"Sit down over there," he said, and pointed toward a chair against the wall. She went meekly
like a prisoner. He spoke to the child in the purple apron, who was still sitting behind the
desk. He put some money on the cash-desk in front of her. It was gold. It shone gorgeously
in the dull surrounding, and the child pounced upon it, incredulous of her luck. Then he turned,
crossed the room, soundlessly opened the door, and went out into the violet dark of the street.

The child furtively tested her coin, biting it as if to taste the glitter, and Flora waited,
lost, given up by herself, passively watching for the room to be filled again with his presence.
He was back after a long minute, and this time took up his stand at the door, where, pushing
aside the tight-drawn curtain a little, from time to time he looked out into the street. Sometimes
his eyes followed the cracks of the plastered wall, sometimes he studied the floor at his feet;
every moment she saw he was alert, expectantly watching and waiting; and though he never looked
at her sitting behind him, she felt his protection between her and the darkening street. She
sat in the shadow of it, feeling it all around her, claiming her as it would claim her henceforth,
from, the world. A ghost of light glimmered along the curtains of the window, and stopped,
quivering, in the middle of the curtained door. Then he turned about and beckoned her. Sheer
weakness kept her sitting. He went to her, took her face between his hands, and looked into
it long and intently.

"You don't want to go!" The words fell from his lips like an accusal. His sudden realization
of what she felt held him there dumb with disappointment. "You have won me," her look was saying,
"and yet I have immediately become a worthless thing, because I am going; and I don't believe
in going." She felt she had failed him--how cruelly, was written in his face. But it was only
for a moment that she made him hesitate. The next he shook himself free.

"Well, come," he said.

She felt that all doors would fly open at his bidding. She felt herself swept powerless at
his will with all the yielding in her soul that she had felt in her body when his arms were
around her. He had taken her by the hand--he was leading her out into the gusty night, where
all lights flared--the gas-lights marching up the street over the hill into the unknown, and
the lights gleaming at her like eyes in the dark bulk of the carriage waiting before the door.
It all glimmered before her--a picture she might never see again--might not see after she passed
through the carriage door that gaped for her. The will that had swept her out of the door was
moving her beyond her own will, as it had moved her that morning in the garden, beyond all
things that she knew. There was no feeling left in her but the despair of extreme surrender.

She found herself in the carriage. She saw his face in the carriage door as pale as anger,
yet not angry; it was some bigger thing that looked at her from his eyes. He looked a long
while, as if he bade her never to forget this moment. Then, "I'll give you twenty-four hours,"
he said. "This man will take you home." He shut the carriage door--shut it between them. Before
she had gathered breath he had straightened, fallen back, raised his hat, and the carriage
was turning. Flora thrust her head, straw hat and ribbons out of the window.

"Oh, I love you!" she called to him. She sank back in the cushions and covered her face with
her hands.

XVIII

GOBLIN TACTICS

For a little she kept her face hidden, shutting out the present, jealously living with the
wonderful thing that had happened to her. It was as wonderful as anything she had dreamed might
come when she had written him that letter. And if she needed any proof of his love, she had
had it in the moment when he had let her go. There he had transcended her hope. She felt lifted
up, she felt triumphant, though the triumph had not been hers. It was all his; he had saved
her from her own weakness; his was the miracle. How he shone to her! The dark, swaying hollow
of the carriage seemed still full of his presence, full of his hurried whispering; and again
she seemed to see him standing outside the window in the deep blue evening holding out his
hands to her cry of "I love you!"

He had been wonderful in a way she had not expected. He had shown her so beautifully that he
could be reached in spite of his obsession. Might not she hope to touch him just a little further?
Was there any height now that he might not rise to? She seemed to see the possible end of it
all shaping itself out of his magnanimity. She seemed to see him finally relinquishing his
passion for the jewel, and his passion for her for the sake of something finer than both. She
had seen it foreshadowed in what he had done this day--having them both in his hands, he had
put them away from him. Yet in that action she knew there had been no finality. She had touched
him, but she had not convinced him, and as long as he was unconvinced he would be at her again
in some other way.

Her hands dropped from her face, and she confronted the fact drearily. "No," she thought, "he
never gives up what he wants."

She looked out of the window. The flickers of gas-lamps fell intermittently through it upon
her. Her queer vehicle was rattling crazily--jolting as if every spring were at its last leap.
She was out of the quiet, blue street. Montgomery Avenue, with its lights, its glittering gilt
names and Latin insignia, was traveling by on either side of her. The voice of the city was
growing louder in her ears, the crowd on the pavement increased. At intervals the carriage
dipped through glares of electric lights that illuminated its interior in a flash broader than
day--the ragged cushions, the raveled tassels, the limp-swinging shutters, and, glimmering
in the midst, wild and disheveled, herself in all the little wavy mirrors. She sat looking
out at the maze of moving lights and figures without seeing them, intent on an idea that was
growing clearer, larger, moment by moment in her mind.

Kerr's appearance in her garden--his capture of her--had not been the fantastic freak it had
seemed. He had had his purpose. He had taken her out of her environment; he had carried her
beyond succor or menace just that he might carry them both so much further and faster through
their differences. They had not reached the point of agreement yet, but might they not on some
other ground, where they could be unchallenged? It seemed to her if she could only meet him
on her own ground for once--instead of for ever on Clara's or Harry's--only meet him alone,
somewhere beyond their reach, it might be accomplished, it might be brought to the end she
so wished. Yet where to go to be rid of Clara and Harry, the two so closely associated with
every fact of her life?

The hack, which had been moving along at a rapid pace, slowed now to a walk among the thickening
traffic, and from a mere moving mass the crowd appeared as individuals--a stream of dark figures
and white faces. Her eyes slipped from one to another. Here one stood still on the lamp-lit
corner, looking down, with lips moving quickly and silently. It was strange to see those rapid,
eager, moving lips with no sound from them audible. Then her eyes were startled by something
familiar in the figure, though the direct down-glare of the ball of light above him distorted
the features with shadows. She pressed her face against the window-glass in palpitating doubt.
It was Harry.

She cowered in the corner of the carriage. In a moment the risks of her situation were before
her. Had he seen her? Oh, no, at least not yet. He had been too intent on whomever he was talking
to. She peered to make sure that he was still safely on the street corner. He was just opposite,
and now that the eddy of the crowd had left a little clear space around him she saw with whom
he was talking. It was a small, very small, shabby, nondescript man--possibly only a boy, so
short he seemed. His back was toward her. His clothes hung upon him with an odd un-Anglo-Saxon
air. He was foreign with a foreignness no country could explain--Italian, Portuguese, Greek--whatever
he was, he was a strange foil to Harry, so bright and burnished.

The hack was turning. She realized with dismay that it was turning sharp around that very corner
where they stood. Suppose Harry should chance to glance through its window and see Flora Gilsey
sitting trembling within. The hack wheezed and cramped, and all at once she heard it scrape
the curb. Then she was lost! She looked up brave in her desperation, ready to meet Harry's
eyes. She saw the back of his head. For a moment it loomed directly above her, then it moved.
He was separating from his companion. With one stride he vanished out of the square frame of
the window, and there remained full fronting her, staring in upon her, the face of his companion.

Back flashed to her memory the goldsmith's shop--dull hues and odors all at once--and that
wide unwinking stare that had fixed her from the other side of the counter. The blue-eyed Chinaman!
In the glare of white light, in his terrible clearness and nearness, she knew him instantly.

The hack plunged forward, the face was gone. But she remained nerveless, powerless to move,
frozen in her stupefaction, while her vehicle pursued its crazy course. It was clattering up
Sutter Street toward Kearney, where at this hour the town was widest awake, and the crowd was
a crowd she knew. At any instant people she knew might be going in and out of the florists'
shops and restaurants, or passing her in carriages. And what of Flora Gilsey in her morning
dress and garden hat, in a night-hawk of a Telegraph Hill hack, flying through their midst
like a mad woman? They were the least of her fears. She had forgotten them. The only thing
that remained to her was the memory of Harry and the blue-eyed Chinaman together on the street
corner.

She had been given a glimpse of that large scheme that Harry was carrying forward somewhere
out of her sight--such a glimpse as Clara had given her in the rifling of her room, as Ella
had shown in her hysterical revelation. Again she felt the threat of these ominous signs of
danger, as a lone general at a last stand with his troops clustered at his back sees in front,
and behind, on either side of him, the glitter of bayonets in the bushes.

She was in the midst of the tangled traffic of Kearney Street. Swimming lights and crowds were
all around her. She peered forth cautiously upon it. She saw a florid face, a woman, she knew
casually--and there her eyes fastened, not for the woman's brilliant presence, but for what
she saw directly in front of it, thrown into relief upon its background--a short and shabby
figure, foreign, equivocal, reticent, the figure of a blue-eyed Chinaman.

