THE MORMON MENACE

BEING THE CONFESSION OF JOHN DOYLE LEE - DANITE

AN OFFICIAL ASSASSIN OF THE MORMON CHURCH UNDER THE LATE BRIGHAM YOUNG

INTRODUCTION By ALFRED HENRY LEWIS

WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS

New York Home Protection Publishing Co. 156 Fifth Avenue

Copyright, 1905, by A. B. NICHOLS

All Rights Reserved

electrotyped and printed by the Herald Company of Binghamtom

CONTENTS (pages not numbered in text version)

INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .v

CHAPTER I - THE STORMY YOUTH OF LEE. . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

CHAPTER II - LEE BEGINS A CAREER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

CHAPTER III - LEE BECOMES A MORMON . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

CHAPTER IV - THE SAINTS BESET WITH TROUBLES. . . . . . . . . 29

CHAPTER V - THE MORMON WAR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

CHAPTER VI - LEE LOCATES THE GARDEN OF EDEN. . . . . . . . . 45

CHAPTER VII - THE SAINTS GATHER AT NAUVOO. . . . . . . . . . 52

CHAPTER VIII - LEE AS A MISSIONARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

CHAPTER IX - MORMONISM AND ITS ORIGIN. . . . . . . . . . . . 67

CHAPTER X - LEE CASTS OUT DEVILS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73

CHAPTER XI - HOT FOR LEE IN TENNESSEE. . . . . . . . . . . . 78

CHAPTER XII - OF PECULIAR INTEREST IN NAUVOO . . . . . . . . 86

CHAPTER XIII - DEATH OF JOSEPH SMITH . . . . . . . . . . . . 93

CHAPTER XIV - THE DOCTRINE OF SEALING. . . . . . . . . . . . 99

CHAPTER XV - THE SAINTS TURN WESTWARD. . . . . . . . . . . .104

CHAPTER XVI - LEE GOES TO SANTA FE . . . . . . . . . . . . .110

CHAPTER XVII - LEE IS TREATED BADLY BY THE BRETHREN. . . . .119

CHAPTER XVIII - THE DANITE AND HIS DUTY. . . . . . . . . . .129

CHAPTER XIX - THE MOUNTAIN MEADOWS . . . . . . . . . . . . .139

CHAPTER XX - THE MUSTER OF THE DANITES . . . . . . . . . . .146

CHAPTER XXI - THE BLOOD FEAST OF THE DANITES . . . . . . . .151

CHAPTER XXII - THE DANITE CHIEF REPORTS TO BRIGHAM . . . . .157

CHAPTER XXIII - LEE NEARS THE END. . . . . . . . . . . . . .161

APPENDIX I - BLOOD ATONEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .166

APPENDIX II - THE STORY OF LEE'S ARREST. . . . . . . . . . .168

APPENDIX III - DEATH OF JOHN DOYLE LEE . . . . . . . . . . .173

ILLUSTRATIONS (not included in text version)

The Mountain Meadows                        ii

The Danite                                  36

The Mormon Preacher                         60

The Blood Atonement                         138

John Doyle Lee                              150

INTRODUCTION

THE MORMON PURPOSE

Almost a half century ago, being in 1857, John Doyle Lee, a chief among that red brotherhood,
the Danites, was ordered by Brigham Young and the leading counselors of the Mormon Church to
take his men and murder a party of emigrants then on their way through Utah to California.
The Mormon orders were to "kill all who can talk," and, in their carrying out, Lee and his
Danites, with certain Indians whom he had recruited in the name of scalps and pillage, slaughtered
over one hundred and twenty men, women, and children, and left their stripped bodies to the
elements and the wolves. This wholesale murder was given the title of "The Mountain Meadows
Massacre." Twenty years later, in 1877, the belated justice of this Government seated Lee on
his coffin, and shot him to death for his crimes.

In those long prison weeks which fell in between his arrest and execution, Lee wrote his life,
giving among other matters the story of the Church of Mormon from its inception, when Joseph
Smith pretended, with the aid of Urim and Thummim, to translate the golden plates, down to
those murders for which he, Lee, was executed. Lee's confessions, so to call them, were published
within a few months following his death. The disclosures were such that the Mormon Church became
alarmed; the book might mean its downfall. In the name of Mormon safety Brigham Young, by money
and other agencies, succeeded in the book's suppression. What copies had been sold were, as
much as might be, bought up and destroyed, together with the plates and forms from which they
had been printed.

In the destruction of this literature, so perilous to Mormons, at least two volumes escaped.
These have been placed in my hands by certain patriotic influences, and are here reprinted
as The Mormon Menace. Much that was shocking and atrocious has been eliminated in the editing,
as unfit for modest ears and eyes. What remains, however, will give a sufficient picture of
the Mormon Church in its hateful attitude towards all that is moral or republican among our
people. A black kitten makes a black cat; what the Mormon Church was under President Young
it is under President Smith, and will be with their dark successors.

The purpose of the present publication of Lee's story is to warn American men, and more particularly
American women, of the Mormon viper still coiled upon the national hearth. To-day, as in the
days of Lee, the Mormon missionary is abroad in the world. He is in your midst; he makes his
converts among your neighbors; within the month, on one detected occasion, he stood at the
portals of your public schools and gave his insidious pamphlets, preaching Mormonism, into
the hands of your children.

More, the Mormon Church has, in addition to its religious, its political side, and teaches
not only immorality, but treason. On a far-away 5th of November a certain darksome Guy Fawkes
and his confederates, all with a genius for explosives, planned to blow up the British Government
by blowing up its parliament, and went some distance towards carrying out their plot. The Mormon
Church of Latter-day Saints, with headquarters in Salt Lake City, is employed upon a present
and somewhat similar conspiracy against this Government, with Senator Smoot as the advance
guard or agent thereof in the halls of our national legislature.

As this is written, a Senate inquiry into this conspiracy wags slowly yet searchingly forward.
Stripped of formality of phrase and reset in easier English, the question which the Senate
Committee is trying to solve is this: Is the Mormon Church in conspiracy against the Government,
with Senator Smoot's seat as a first fruit of that conspiracy? As corollary comes the second
query: To which does Senator Smoot give primary allegiance, the Church or the nation?

By every sign and signal smoke of evidence the conspiracy charged exists, with President Smith
of the Mormon Church its chief architect and expositor. Smoot takes his seat in the upper house
of Congress with a first purpose of carrying forth, so far as lies within his hands, the plans
of the conspirators. What is the purpose of the conspirators? To protect themselves and their
fellow Mormons in the criminal practice of polygamy, and prevent their prosecution as bigamists
by the Utah courts.

The inquiry has already uncovered Mormonism in many of its evil details, and retold most, if
not all, of those stories of pious charlatanism and religious crime which, during seventy-five
years of its existence, make up the annals of the Mormon Church. As a first proposal it was
explained in evidence before the committee that in no sort had the Mormon Church abated or
abandoned polygamy as either a tenet or a practice. Indeed, the present conspiracy aims to
produce conditions in Utah under which polygamy may flourish safe from the ax of law. In the
old days, when Brigham Young ruled, the Mormons were safe with sundry thousands of desert miles
between the law and them. Then they feared nothing save strife within the Church, and that
would be no mighty peril. Brigham Young would put it down with the Danites. He had his Destroying
Angels, himself at their head, and when a man rebelled he was murdered.

Mormonism is not, when a first fanaticism has subsided, a religion that would address the popular
taste. It is a religion of gloom, of bitterness, of fear, of iron hand to punish the recalcitrant.
It demands slavish submission on the part of every man. It insists upon abjection, self-effacement,
a surrender of individuality on the part of every woman. The man is to work and obey; the woman
is to submit and bear children; all are to be for the Church, of the Church, by the Church,
hoping nothing, fearing nothing, knowing nothing beyond the will of the Church. The money price
of Mormonism is a tithe of the member's income - the Church takes a tenth. The member may pay
in money or in kind; he may sell and pay his tenth in dollars, or he may bring to the tithing
yard his butter, or eggs, or hay, or wheat, or whatever he shall raise as the harvest of his
labors.

In the old time the President of the Church was the temporal as well as spiritual head. No
one might doubt his "revelations" or dispute his commands without being visited with punishment
which ran from a fine to the death penalty. When outsiders invaded their regions the Mormons,
by command of Brigham Young, struck them down, as in the Mountain Meadows murders. This was
in the day when the arm of national power was too short to reach them. Now, when it can reach
them, the Church conspires where before it assassinated, and strives to do by chicane what
it aforetime did by shedding blood. And all to defend itself in the practice of polygamy!

One would ask why the Mormons set such extravagant store by that doctrine of many wives. This
is the great reason: It serves to mark the Church members and separate and set them apart from
Gentile influences. Mormonism is the sort of religion that children would renounce, and converts,
when their heat had cooled, abandon. The women would leave it on grounds of jealousy and sentiment;
the men would quit in a spirit of independence and a want of superstitious belief in the Prophet's
"revelations." Polygamy prevents this. It shuts the door of Gentile sympathy against the Mormon.
The Mormon women are beings disgraced among the Gentiles; they must defend their good repute.
The children of polygamous marriages must defend polygamy to defend their own legitimacy. The
practice, which doubtless had its beginning solely to produce as rapidly as might be a Church
strength, now acts as a bar to the member's escape; wherefore the President, his two counselors,
the twelve apostles and others at the head of Mormon affairs, insist upon it as a best, if
not an only, Church protection. Without polygamy the Mormon membership would dwindle until
Mormonism had utterly died out. The Mormon heads think so, and preserve polygamy as a means
of preserving the Church.

What the Mormon leaders think and feel and say on this keynote question of polygamy, however
much they may seek to hide their sentiments behind a mask of lies, may be found in former utterances
from the Church pulpit, made before the shadow of the law had fallen across it.

President Heber C. Kimball, in a discourse delivered in the Tabernacle, November 9, 1856 (Deseret
News, volume 6, page 291), said: "I have no wife or child that has any right to rebel against
me. If they violate my laws and rebel against me, they will get into trouble just as quickly
as though they transgressed the counsels and teachings of Brother Brigham. Does it give a woman
a right to sin against me because she is my wife? No; but it is her duty to do my will as I
do the will of my Father and my God. A disregard of plain and correct teachings is the reason
why so many are dead and damned, and twice plucked up by the roots, and I would as soon baptize
the devil as some of you."

October 6, 1855 (volume 5, page 274), Kimball said: "If you oppose any of the works of God
you will cultivate a spirit of apostasy. If you oppose what is called the spiritual wife doctrine,
the patriarchal order, which is of God, that course will corrode you with apostasy, and you
will go overboard. The principle of plurality of wives never will be done away, although some
sisters have had revelations that when this time passes away, and they go through the vale,
every woman will have a husband to herself. I wish more of our young men would take to themselves
wives of the daughters of Zion, and not wait for us old men to take them all. Go ahead upon
the right principle, young gentlemen, and God bless you for ever and ever, and make you fruitful,
that we may fill the mountains and then the earth with righteous inhabitants."

President Heber C. Kimball, in a lengthy discourse delivered in the Tabernacle on the 4th day
of April, 1857, took occasion to say: "I would not be afraid to promise a man who is sixty
years of age, if he will take the counsel of Brother Brigham and his brethren, that he will
renew his youth. I have noticed that a man who has but one wife, and is inclined to that doctrine,
soon begins to wither and dry up, while a man who goes into plurality looks fresh, young, and
sprightly. Why is this? Because God loves that man, and because he honors his work and word.
Some of you may not believe this - I not only believe it, but I also know it. For a man of
God to be confined to one woman is a small business; it is as much as we can do to keep up
under the burdens we have to carry, and I do not know what we should do if we only had one
woman apiece."

President Heber C. Kimball used the following language in a discourse, instructing a band of
missionaries about to start on their mission: "I say to those who are elected to go on missions,
Go, if you never return, and commit what you have into the hands of God - your wives, your
children, your brethren, and your property.

When the Edmunds law was passed, and punishment and confiscation and exile became the order,
even dullwits among Mormons knew that the day of terror and bloodshed as a system of Church
defense was over with and done. Then the Mormons made mendacity take the place of murder, and
went about to do by indirection what before they had approached direct. Prophet Woodruff was
conveniently given a "revelation" to the effect that polygamy might be abandoned. They none
the less kept the Mormon mind in leash for its revival. The men were still taught subjection;
the women were still told that wifehood and motherhood were their two great stepping-stones
in crossing to the heavenly shore, missing which they would be swept away. Meanwhile, and in
secret, those same heads of the Church - Smith, the President, Cluff, the head of the Mormon
College, Tanner, chief of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association - took unto themselves
plural wives by way of setting an example and to keep the practical fires of polygamy alive.

True, these criminals ran risks, and took what President Smith in his recent testimony, when
telling of his own quintette of helpmeets, called "the chances of the law." To lower these
risks, and diminish them to a point where in truth they would be no risks, the Mormon Church,
under the lead of its bigamous President several years rearward, became a political machine.
It looked over the future, considered its own black needs as an outlaw, and saw that its first
step towards security should be the making of Utah into a State. As a territory the hand of
the Federal power rested heavily upon it; the Edmunds law could be enforced whenever there
dwelt a will in Washington so to do. Once a State, Utah would slip from beneath the pressure
of that iron statute. The Mormons would at the worst face nothing more rigorous than the State's
own laws against bigamy, enforced by judges and juries and sheriffs of their own selection,
and jails whereof they themselves would weld the bars and hew the stones and forge the keys.

With that, every Mormon effort of lying promise and pretense of purity were put forward to
bring statehood about. What Gentiles were then in Utah exerted themselves to a similar end,
and made compacts, and went, as it were, bail for Mormon good behavior. In the end Utah was
made a State; the Mormons breathed the freer as ones who had escaped that Edmunds statute which
was like a sword of Damocles above their polygamous heads. To be sure, as a State Utah had
her laws against plural marriages, and provided a punishment for the bigamist; the general
government would consent to nothing less as the price of that statehood prayed for. But the
Mormon criminals, the Smiths, the Lymans, the Tanners, and the Cluffs, were not afraid. They
had gotten the reins of power into their own fingers, and made sure of their careful ability
to drive ahead without an upset.

The Mormon Church, now when Utah was a State, went into politics more openly and deeply than
before. Practically there are three parties in Utah - Republicans and Democrats and Mormons.
The Gentiles are Democrats or Republicans; the Mormons are never anything but Mormons, voting
on this side or on that, for one man or another, as the Mormon interest dictates and the Mormon
President and the apostles direct. Every Mormon who has a vote occupies a double position;
he is a Mormon in religion and a Mormon in political faith. In that way every office is filled
with a Mormon, or with a Gentile who can be blind to Mormon iniquities. To-day a bigamist in
Utah has no more to fear from the law than has a gambling-house keeper in the city of New York.

That Mormon conspiracy, whereof Smoot in the Senate is one expression, was not made yesterday.
It had its birth in the year of the Edmunds law and its drastic enforcement. In that day, black
for Mormons, it was resolved to secure such foothold, such representation in the Congress at
Washington, that, holding a balance of power in the Senate or House, or both, the Congressional
Democrats or Republicans would grant the Mormons safety for their pet tenet of polygamy as
the price of Mormon support. The Mormons in carrying out these plans decided upon an invasion
and, wherever possible, the political conquest of other States. They already owned Utah; they
would bring - politically - beneath their thumb as many more as they might. With this thought
they planted colonies in Nevada, in Colorado, in Idaho, in Wyoming, in Montana, in Oregon,
in Arizona. As a refuge for polygamists, should the unexpected happen and a storm of law befall,
they also planted colonies over the Mexico line in Chihuahua and Sonora.

Before going to the latter move they talked with Diaz; and that astute dictator said "Yes,"
with emphasis. Diaz welcomed the Mormons; they might be as polygamous as they pleased. He wanted
citizens; and he was not blind to those beauties of enterprise and courage and hardihood that
are the heritage of the Anglo- Dane. He bade the Mormons come to Mexico and make a bulwark
of themselves between him and his American neighbors north of the Rio Grande. The Mormons hated
the Americans; Diaz could trust them. The Mormons went to Mexico; there they are to-day in
many a rich community, as freely polygamous as in the most wide-flung hour of Brigham Young.
Diaz smiles as he reviews those prodigal crops of corn and cattle and children which they raise.
They make his empire richer in men and money - commodities of which Mexico has sorely felt
the want.

Once when a Methodist clergyman went to Diaz, remonstrated against that polygamy which he permitted,
and spoke of immoralities, Diaz snapped his fingers.

"Do you see their children?" cried Diaz. "Well, I think more of their children than of your
arguments."

From this Mexican nursery the Mormon President can, when he will, order an emigration into
Nevada or any of those other States I've mentioned, to support the Church where it is weakest.
Moreover, as related, the settlements in Mexico offer a haven of retreat should any tempest
of prosecution beat upon the Utah polygamists through some slip of policy or accidental Gentile
strength.

In Nevada, in Colorado, in Oregon, in Idaho, in every one of those States wherein the Church
has planted the standards of Mormonism, the Mormon, as fast as he may, is making himself a
power in politics. He is never a Democrat, never a Republican, always a Mormon. What sparks
of independent political action broke into brief, albeit fiery, life a few years ago were fairly
beaten out when Thatcher and Roberts were punished for daring to act outside the Mormon command.

Now, pretend what they will, assert what lie they choose, the Mormon President holds the Mormon
vote, in whatever State it abides, in the hollow of his hand. He can, and does, place it to
this or that party's support, according as he makes his bargain. He will use it to elect legislators
and Congressmen in those States. He will employ it to select the Senators whom those States
send to Washington. And when they are there, as Smoot is there, for the safeguarding of polygamy
and what other crimes Mormonism may find it convenient to rest upon from time to time, those
Senators and Representatives will act by the Mormon President's orders. "When the lion's hide
is too short," said the Greek, "I piece it out with foxes." And the Mormons, in a day when
the Danites have gone with those who called them into bloody being, and murder as a Churchly
argument is no longer safe, profit by the Grecian's wisdom.

But the darkest side of Mormonism is seen when one considers the stamp of moral and mental
degradation it sets upon those men and women who comprise what one might term the peasantry
of the Church. Woman is, as the effect of Mormonism, peculiarly made to retrograde. Instead
of being uplifted she is beaten down. She must not think; she must not feel; she must not know;
she must not love. Her only safety lies in being blind and deaf and dull and senseless to every
better sentiment of womanhood. She is to divide a husband with one or two or ten or twenty;
she is not to be a wife, but the fraction of a wife. The moment she looks upon herself as anything
other than a bearer of children she is lost. Should she rebel - and in her helplessness she
does not know how to enter upon practical revolt - she becomes an outcast; a creature of no
shelter, no food, no friend, no home. Woman is the basis or, if you will, the source and fountain
of a race; woman is a race's inspiration. And what shall a race be, what shall its children
be, with so lowered and befouled an origin?

At the hearing before the Senate Committee President Smith, stroking his long white beard in
the manner of the patriarchs, made no secret of his five wives, and seemed to court the Gentile
condemnation. This hardihood was of deliberate plan on the part of President Smith. He was
inviting what he would call "persecution." He did not fear actual prosecution in the Utah courts;
as to the Federal forums, those tribunals were powerless against him now that Utah was a State.
Being safe in the flesh, President Smith would bring upon himself and Mormonism the whole fury
of the press. It would serve to quiet schism and bicker within the Mormon Church. An opposition
or a "persecution" would act as a pressure to bring Mormons together. That pressure would squeeze
out the last drop of political independence among Mormons, which to the extent that it existed
might interfere with his disposal of the compact Mormon vote. In short, an attack upon himself
and upon Mormonism by the Gentiles would tighten the hold of President Smith, close-herd the
Mormons, and leave them ready politically to be driven hither and yon as seemed most profitable
for Church purposes.

Gray, wise, crafty, sly, soft, one who carries mendacity to the heights of art, President Smith
gives in all he says and does and looks the color of truth to this explanation of his frankness.
He would not prodigiously care if Smoot were cast into outer Senate darkness. It would not
be an evil past a remedy. He could send Smoot back; and send him back again. Meanwhile, he
might lift up the cry of the Church persecuted; that of itself would stiffen the Mormon line
of battle and multiply recruits.

President Smith looks forward to a time when one Senate vote will be decisive. He cannot prophesy
the day; but by the light of what has been, he knows that it must dawn. About a decade ago
the Democrats took the Senate from the Republicans by one vote - Senator Peffer's. In Garfield's
day the Senate, before Conkling stepped down and out, was in even balance with a tie. What
was, will be; and President Smith intends, when that moment arrives and the Senate is in poise
between the parties, to have at least one Utah vote, and as many more as he may, to be a stock
in trade wherewith to traffic security for his Church of Mormon and its crimes. Given a balance
of power in the Senate - and it might easily come within his hands - President Smith could
enforce such liberal terms for Mormonism as to privilege it in its sins and prevent chance
of punishment.

There be those who, for a Mormon or a personal political reason, will find fault with this
work and its now appearance in print; they will argue that some motive of politics underlies
the publication. It is fair to state that in so arguing they will be right. The motive is three-ply
- made up of a purpose to withstand the Mormon Church as a political force, limit its spread
as a so-called religion, and buckler the mothers and daughters and sisters of the country against
an enemy whose advances are aimed peculiarly at them. The morals of a people are in the custody
of its women; and, against Mormonism - that sleepless menace to American morality - these confessions
of Lee the Danite are set in types to become a weapon in their hands. It was the womanhood
of the nation that compelled the present Senate investigation of Smoot and what Mormon influences
and conspiracies produced him as their representative; and it is for a defense of womanhood
and its purity that this book is made. The battle will not be wholly won with Smoot's eviction
from his Senate seat; indeed, the going of Smoot will be only an incident. The war should continue
until all of Mormonism and what it stands for is destroyed; for then, and not before, may wifehood
or womanhood write itself safe between the oceans. Congress must not alone cleanse itself of
Smoot; it must go forward to methods that shall save the politics of the country from a least
of Mormon interference, and the aroused womanhood of the land should compel Congress to this
work. He who would hold his house above his head must mind repairs, and the word is quite as
true when spoken of a country.

Alfred Henry Lewis. New York City,

December 15, 1904.

THE MORMON MENACE OR, THE CONFESSIONS OF JOHN DOYLE LEE

CHAPTER I - THE STORMY YOUTH OF LEE

In justice to myself, my numerous family, and the public in general, I consider it my duty
to write a history of my life. I shall content myself with giving facts, and let the readers
draw their own conclusion therefrom. By the world at large I am called a criminal, and have
been sentenced to be shot for deeds committed by myself and others nearly twenty years ago.
I have acted my religion, nothing more. I have obeyed the orders of the Church. I have acted
as I was commanded to do by my superiors. My sins, if any, are the result of doing what I was
commanded to do by those who were my superiors in authority in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.

My birthday was the 6th day of September, A.D. 1812. I was born in the town of Kaskaskia, Randolph
County, Illinois. My father, Ralph Lee, was born in the State of Virginia. He was of the family
of Lees of Revolutionary fame. He served his time as an apprentice and learned the carpenter's
trade in the city of Baltimore. My mother was born in Nashville, Tennessee. She was the daughter
of John Doyle, who for many years held the position of Indian Agent over the roving tribes
of Indians in southeastern Illinois. He served in the War of the Revolution, and was wounded
in one of the many battles in which he took part with the sons of liberty against the English
oppressors.

At the time of my birth my father was considered one of the leading men of that section of
country; he was a master workman, sober and attentive to business, prompt and punctual to his
engagements. He contracted largely and carried on a heavy business; he erected a magnificent
mansion, for that age and country, on his land adjoining the town of Kaskaskia.

This tract of land was the property of my mother when she married my father. My grandfather
Doyle was a wealthy man. He died in 1809 at Kaskaskia, Illinois, and left his whole fortune
to my mother and her sister Charlotte, by will. They being his only children, he divided the
property equally between them.

My father and mother were both Catholics, were raised in that faith; I was christened in that
Church. When about one year old, my mother being sick, I was sent to a French nurse, a negro
woman. At this time my sister Eliza was eleven years old, but young as she was she had to care
for my mother and do all the work of the household. To add to the misfortune, my father began
to drink heavily and was soon very dissipated; drinking and gambling were his daily occupation.
The interest and care of his family were no longer a duty with him; he was seldom present to
cheer and comfort his lonely, afflicted wife.

The house was one mile from town, and we had no neighbors nearer than that. The neglect and
indifference on the part of my father towards my afflicted mother served to increase her anguish
and sorrow, until death came to her relief. My mother's death left us miserable indeed; we
were (my sister and I) thrown upon the wide world, helpless, and, I might say, without father
or mother. My father when free from the effects of intoxicating drink was a kind-hearted, generous,
noble man, but from that time forward he was a slave to drink - seldom sober.

My aunt Charlotte was a spit-fire; she was married to a man by the name of James Conner, a
Kentuckian by birth. They lived ten miles north of us. My sister went to live with her aunt,
but the treatment she received was so brutal that the citizens complained to the county commissioners,
and she was taken away from her aunt and bound out to Dr. Fisher, with whose family she lived
until she became of age.

In the meantime the doctor moved to the city of Vandalia, Illinois. I remained with my nurse
until I was eight years of age, when I was taken to my aunt Charlotte's to be educated. I had
been in a family which talked French so long that I had nearly lost all knowledge of my mother
tongue. The children at school called me Gumbo, and teased me so much that I became disgusted
with the French language and tried to forget it - which has been a disadvantage to me since
that time.

My aunt was rich in her own right. My uncle Conner was poor; he drank and gambled and wasted
her fortune; she in return give him blixen all the time. The more she scolded, the worse he
acted, until they would fight like cats and dogs. Between them I was treated worse than an
African slave. I lived in the family eight years, and can safely say I got a whipping every
day I was there.

My aunt was more like a savage than a civilized woman. In her anger she generally took her
revenge upon those around her who were the least to blame. She would strike with anything she
could obtain with which to work an injury. I have been knocked down and beaten by her until
I was senseless, scores of times, and carry many scars on my person, the result of harsh usage
by her.

When I was sixteen years old I concluded to leave my aunt's house - I cannot call it home;
my friends advised me to do so. I walked one night to Kaskaskia; went to Robert Morrison and
told him my story. He was a mail contractor. He clothed me comfortably, and sent me over the
Mississippi River into Missouri, to carry the mail from St. Genevieve to Pinckney, on the north
side of the Missouri River, via Potosie, a distance of one hundred and twenty-seven miles.
It was a weekly mail. I was to receive seven dollars a month for my services. This was in December,
1828. It was a severe winter; snow unusually deep and roads bad. I was often until two o'clock
at night in reaching my stations. In the following spring I came near losing my life on several
occasions when swimming the streams, which were then generally over their banks. The Meramec
was the worst stream I had to cross, but I escaped danger, and gave satisfaction to my employer.

All I know of my father, after I was eight years of age, is that he went to Texas in the year
1820, and I have never heard of him since. What his fate was I never knew. When my mother died
my uncle and aunt Conner took all the property - a large tract of land, several slaves, household
and kitchen furniture, and all; and, as I had no guardian, I never received any portion of
the property. The slaves were set free by an act of the Legislature; the land was sold for
taxes, and was hardly worth redeeming when I came of age; so I sold my interest in all the
land that had belonged to my mother, and made a quit-claim deed of it to Sidney Breeze, a lawyer
of Kaskaskia, in consideration of two hundred dollars. I was born on the point of land lying
between and above the mouth of the Okaw or Kaskaskia River and the Mississippi River, in what
is known as the Great American Bottom - the particular point I refer to was then called Zeal-no-waw,
the Island of Nuts. It was nineteen miles from the point of the bluffs to the mouth of the
Okaw River; ten miles wide up at the bluffs and tapering to a point where the rivers united.
Large bands of wild horses - French ponies, called "punt" horses - were to be found any day
feeding on the ever green and nutritious grasses and vegetation. Cattle and hogs were also
running wild in great numbers; every kind of game, large and small, could be had with little
exertion. The streams were full of fish; the forests contained many varieties of timber; nuts,
berries, and wild fruits of every description, found in the temperate zone could be had in
their season.

Near by was the Reservation of the Kaskaskia Indians, Louis DuQuoin was chief of the tribe.
He had a frame house painted in bright colors, but he never would farm any, game being so plentiful
he had no need to labor. Nearly all the settlers were French, and not very anxious for education
or improvement of any kind. I was quite a lad before I ever saw a wagon, carriage, set of harness,
or a ring, a staple, or set of bows to an ox yoke. The first wagon I ever saw was brought into
that country by a Yankee peddler; his outfit created as great an excitement in the settlement
as the first locomotive did in Utah; the people flocked in from every quarter to see the Yankee
wagon.

Everything in use in that country was of the most simple and primitive construction. There
were no sawmills or gristmills in that region; sawed lumber was not in the country. The wagons
were two-wheeled carts made entirely of wood - not a particle of iron about them; the hubs
were of white elm, spokes of white oak or hickory, the felloes of black walnut, as it was soft
and would bear rounding. The felloes were made six inches thick, and were strongly doweled
together with seasoned hardwood pins; the linch pin was of hickory or ash; the thills were
wood; in fact all of it was wood. The harness consisted of a corn husk collar, hames cut from
an ash tree root, or from an oak; tugs were rawhide; the lines also were rawhide; a hackamore
or halter was used in place of a bridle; one horse was lashed between the thills by rawhide
straps and pins in the thills for a hold-back; when two horses were used, the second horse
was fastened ahead of the first by straps fastened on to the thills of the cart. Oxen were
yoked as follows: A square stick of timber of sufficient length was taken and hollowed out
at the ends to fit on the neck of the ox, close up to the horns, and this was fastened by rawhide
straps to the horns.

The people were of necessity self-sustaining, for they were forced to depend upon their own
resources for everything they used. Clothing was made of home manufactured cloth or the skins
of wild animals. Imported articles were procured at heavy cost, and but few found their way
to our settlements. Steamboats and railroads were then unthought of, by us at least, and the
navigation of the Mississippi was carried on in small boats that could be drawn up along the
river bank by means of oars, spikes, poles, and hooks. The articles most in demand were axes,
hoes, cotton cards, hatchels for cleaning flax, hemp and cotton, spinning wheels, knives, and
ammunition, guns, and bar shears for plows. In exchange for such goods the people traded beef,
hides, furs, tallow, beeswax, and honey. Money was not needed or used by anyone - everything
was trade and barter.

The people were generous and brave. Their pleasures and pastimes were those usual in frontier
settlements. They were hardy, and well versed in woodcraft. They aided each other, and were
all in all a noble class of people, possessing many virtues and few faults. The girls were
educated by their mothers to work, and had to work. It was then a disgrace for a young woman
not to know how to take the raw material - the flax and cotton - and, unaided, manufacture
her own clothing. It is a lamentable fact that such is no longer the case.

CHAPTER II - LEE BEGINS A CAREER

I formed a liking for Emily Conner. Emily was an orphan, and lived about four years at my aunt
Charlotte's after her mother died, and until her father married again. She had a consoling
word for me at all times when I was in trouble. From being friends, we became lovers and were
engaged to be married, when my circumstances would permit. That winter I went to a school for
three months.

Early in the spring the Indian war known as the Black Hawk war broke out, and volunteers were
called for. I enrolled myself at the first call, in the company of Capt. Jacob Feaman, of Kaskaskia.
The company was ordered to rendezvous at Fort Armstrong, Rock Island, where the troops were
reorganized, and Capt. Feaman was promoted to colonel, and James Conner became captain of the
company. I served until the end of the war, and was engaged in many skirmishes, and lastly
was at the battle of Bad Axe, which I think took place on the 4th day of August, A. D. 1831,
but am not certain as to the date.

The soldiers were allowed to go home about the 1st of September, 1831. Our company got to Kaskaskia,
and were discharged, I think, on the 1st of September, 1831. I got back with a broken-down
horse and worn-out clothing, and without money. I concluded to seek a more genial clime, one
where I could more rapidly better my financial condition. I went to see and talk with Emily,
the friend of my childhood, and the girl that taught me first to love. I informed her of my
intentions. We pledged mutual and lasting fidelity to each other, and I bid her farewell and
went to St. Louis to seek employment.

When I landed on the wharf at St. Louis I met a negro by the name of Barton, who had formerly
been a slave to my mother. He informed me that he was a fireman on the steamboat Warrior, running
the upper Mississippi, between St. Louis, Missouri, and Galena, Illinois. I told him I wanted
work. He said he could get me a berth on the Warrior as fireman, at twenty-five dollars a month;
but he considered the work more than I could endure, as it was a hard, hot boat to fire on.
I insisted on making the effort, and was employed as fireman on the Warrior at twenty-five
dollars per month. I found the work very hard. The first two or three times that I was on watch
I feared I would be forced to give it up; but my spirit bore me up, and I managed to do my
work until we reached the lower rapids near Keokuk. At this place the Warrior transferred its
freight, in light boats, over the rapids to the Henry Clay, a steamer belonging to the same line.

The Henry Clay then lay at Commerce, now known as Nauvoo. I was detailed with two others to
take a skiff with four passengers over the rapids. The passengers were Mrs. Bogges and her
mother, and a lady whose name I have forgotten, and Mr. Bogges. The distance to the Henry Clay
from where the Warrior lay was twelve miles. A large portion of the cargo of the Warrior belonged
to the firm of Bogges & Co. When we had gone nearly halfway over the rapids my two assistants
got drunk and could no longer assist me; they lay down in the skiff and went to sleep. Night
was fast approaching, and there was no chance for sleep or refreshment, until we could reach
Commerce or the Henry Clay. The whole labor fell on me, to take that skiff and its load of
passengers to the steamer. Much of the distance I had to wade in the water and push the skiff,
as was most convenient. I had on a pair of new calfskin boots when we started, but they were
cut off my feet by the rocks in the river long before we reached the end of the journey.

After a deal of hardship I succeeded in getting my passengers to the steamer just as it became
dark. I was wet, cold, hungry, and nearly exhausted. I sat down by the engine in my wet clothing
and soon fell asleep, without bedding or food. I slept from exhaustion until near midnight,
when I was seized with fearful crampings, accompanied by a cold and deathlike numbness. I tried
to rise up, but could not. I thought my time had come, and that I would perish without aid
or assistance.

When all hope had left me I heard a footstep approaching, and a man came and bent over me and
asked if I was ill. I recognized the voice as that of Mr. Bogges. I said I was in the agonies
of death, and a stranger without a friend on the boat. He felt my pulse, and hastened away,
saying as he left me:

"Do not despair, young man, you are not without friends. I will return at once."

He soon returned, bringing a lantern and a bottle of cholera medicine, and gave me a large
dose of the medicine; then he brought the captain and others to me. I was soon comfortably
placed in bed, and from that time I had every attention paid me, and all the medical care that
was necessary. Mr. Bogges told me that he had supposed I was one of the regular crew of the
Henry Clay, and was among friends; that his wife had noticed that I appeared to be a stranger,
and had seen me when I sat down by the engine alone; that after they retired his wife was restless
and insisted on his getting up and finding me; this was the occasion of his assistance coming
as it did.

Mr. Bogges had contracted for freighting his goods to Galena, where he resided; and had provided
for the passage of himself, wife, and mother-in-law. They would go by land from Commerce, as
he dreaded the passage of the upper rapids in time of low water, as it then was.

After finishing the loading of the steamer I began to fire up to get ready for a start. While
so engaged, Mr. Bogges came to me, and offered to employ me. He asked me then what wages I
was getting. I told him twenty-five dollars.

"I will give you fifty dollars," said he.

We reached Galena in safety, and health. Now a new life commenced. Mr. Bogges introduced me
to John D. Mulligan, his partner. I at once commenced my duties as bar-tender at the store.
The business was such that I found it more than play. Many a time I did not get rest or sleep
for forty-eight hours at a time. I have frequently taken in one hundred dollars in twenty-
four hours for drinks, at five cents a drink. I paid attention to business, making the interest
of my employers my interest. On account of my faithful services I was permitted to prepare
hot lunches during the night, to sell to gamblers. What I made was my own. In this way I made
from fifty to one hundred dollars a month extra.

One day while I was absent from the store a French half-breed, by the name of Shaunce got on
a drunken spree and cleared out the store and saloon. Hearing the disturbance I ran to the
store. I entered by the back door and went behind the counter. As I did so Shaunce ran to the
counter and grabbed a large number of tumblers, and threw them about the house, breaking them all.

"Shaunce, you must either behave, or go out of the house," I said.

He jumped over the counter, caught me by the throat, and shoved me back against the counter,
saying:

"You little dog, how dare you insult me!"

There was no time to swap knives. I must either receive a beating or do something to prevent
it. I remembered the advice that my uncle Conner had given me about fighting.

"John, if you ever get in a fight with a man that overmatches you, take one of his hands in
both of yours, and let him strike as he may, but get one of his fingers in your mouth and then
bite it, and hold on until he gives up," he had said.

Acting on this advice, I succeeded in getting one of Shaunce's thumbs in my mouth. I held to
it until I dislocated the thumb joint, when he yelled:

"Take him off!"

This little affair made a quiet man of Shaunce, and my employers were more pleased with me
than ever before. They made me a present of fifty dollars for what I had done.

While with Bogges & Co. I made money, and was saving of what I earned. I did not gamble. I
took good care of myself, and, having the respect of every person, I admit I was quite vain
and proud. I was accused by the gamblers of being stingy with my money. So I thought I would
do as others did, and commenced to give money to others as a stake to gamble with on shares.
Soon I began to play. I won and lost, but did not play to any great extent. Mr. Bogges took
me to task for gambling. He also showed me many of the tricks of the gamblers, and I promised
him to quit the practice as soon as I got married.

In the early part of 1832 I received an affectionate letter from my Emily, desiring me to return
to her, and settle down before I had acquired a desire for a rambling life. I then had five
hundred dollars in money and two suits of broadcloth clothing. I was anxious to see Emily,
so I settled up with Bogges & Co. and started for home. Emily was then living at her sister's
house in Prairie de Roache; her brother-in-law, Thomas Blay, kept the tavern there. I boarded
with them about two weeks, during which time I played cards with the Frenchman, and dealt "vantune,"
or twenty-one, for them to bet at. I was lucky, but I lived fast, and spent my money freely,
and soon found that half of it was gone.

Emily was dissatisfied with my conduct. I proposed immediate marriage; Emily proposed to wait
until the next fall, during which time we were to prepare for housekeeping. She wished to see
if I would reform, for she had serious doubts about the propriety of marrying a gambler. She
asked me to quit gambling, and if I had made that promise all would have been well, but I was
stubborn and proud and refused to make any promise. I thought it was beneath my dignity. I
really intended to never gamble after my wedding, but I would not tell her so; my vanity overruled
my judgment. I said that if she had not confidence enough in me to take me as I was, without
requiring me to give such a promise, I would never see her again until I came to ask her to
my wedding.

This was cruel, and deeply wounded Emily; she burst into tears and turned from me. I never
saw her again until I went to ask her to attend my wedding. I went up into the country and
stopped with my cousins. While there I met the bride of my youth; she was the daughter of Joseph
Woolsey and Abigail, his wife. I attended church, went to parties and picnics, and fell in
love with Agathe Ann, the eldest girl. The old folks were op- posed to my marrying their daughter,
but after suffering the tortures and overcoming the obstacles usual in such cases, I obtained
the consent of the girl's parents, and was married to Agathe Ann Woolsey on the 24th day of
July, A. D. 1833.

The expenses of the wedding ended all my money, and I was ready to start the world new and
fresh. I had about fifty dollars to procure things to keep house on, but it was soon gone;
yet it procured, about all we then thought we needed. I commenced housekeeping near my wife's
father's, and had good success in all that I undertook. I made money, or rather I obtained
considerable property, and was soon comfortably fixed.

CHAPTER III - LEE BECOMES A MORMON

After I moved to Luck Creek I was a fortunate man and accumulated property very fast. I look
back to those days with pleasure. I had a large house and I gave permission to all sorts of
people to come there and preach. Methodists, Baptists, Campbellites, and Mormons all preached
there when they desired to do so.

In 1837 a man by the name of King, from Indiana, passed by, or came to my place, on his way
to Missouri to join the Mormons. He had been a New Light, or Campbellite preacher. I invited
him to stay at my place until the next spring. I gave him provisions for his family, and he
consented to and did stay with me some time.

Soon after that there was a Methodist meeting at my house. After the Methodist services were
through I invited King to speak. He talked about half an hour on the first principles of the
gospel as taught by Christ and his apostles, denouncing all other doctrines as spurious. This
put an end to other denominations preaching in my house.

That was the first sermon I ever heard concerning Mormonism. The winter before, two elders,
Durphy and Peter Dustan, stayed a few days with Hanford Stewart, a cousin of Levi Stewart,
the bishop of Kanab. They preached in the neighborhood, but I did not attend or hear them preach.
My wife and her mother went to hear them, and were much pleased with their doctrine. I was
not a member of any Church, and considered the religion of the day as merely the opinions of
men who preached for hire and worldly gain. I believed in God and in Christ, but I did not
see any denomination that taught the apostolic doctrine as set forth in the New Testament.
I read in the New Testament where the apostle Paul recommended his people to prove all things,
then hold fast to that which is good; also that he taught that though an angel from heaven
should preach any other gospel than this which ye have received, let him be accursed. This
forbid me believing any doctrine that differed from that taught by Christ and his apostles.
I wanted to belong to the true Church, or none.

When King began to preach at my house I noticed that every other denomination opposed him.
I was surprised at this. I could not see how he could injure them if they were right. I had
been brought up as a strict Catholic. I was taught to look upon all sects, except the Catholic,
with disfavor, and my opinion was that the Mormons and all others were apostates from the true
Church; that the Mormon Church was made up of the off-scourings of hell, or of apostates from
the true Church. I then had not the most distant idea that the Mormons believed in the Old
and New Testaments. I was astonished to hear King prove his religion from the Scriptures. I
reflected. I determined, as every honest man should do, to fairly investigate his doctrines,
and to do so with a prayerful heart.

The more I studied the question, the more interested I became. I talked of the doctrine to
nearly every man I met. The excitement soon became general, and King was invited to preach
in many places.

In the meantime Levi Stewart, one of my near neighbors, became interested in this religion,
and went to Far West, Missouri, to investigate the question of Mormonism at headquarters. He
joined the Church there, and when he returned he brought with him the Book of Mormon and a
monthly periodical called the Elder's Journal.

By this time my anxiety was very great, and I determined to fathom the question to the bottom.
My frequent conversations with Elder King served to carry me on to a conviction that the dispensation
of the fullness of time would soon usher in upon the world. If such was the case I wished to
know it; for the salvation of my never-dying soul was of far more importance to me than all
other earthly considerations. I regarded the heavenly boon of eternal life as a treasure of
great price. I left off my frivolity and commenced to lead a moral life. I began trying to
lay up treasure in heaven, in my Father's rich storehouse, and wished to become an heir of
righteousness, to inherit in common with the faithful children the rich legacy of our Father's
Kingdom.

During that year our child, Elizabeth Adaline, died of scarlet fever. The night she lay a corpse
I finished reading the Book of Mormon. I never closed my eyes in sleep from the time I commenced
until I finished the book. I read it after asking God to give me knowledge to know if it was
genuine and of Divine authority. By careful examination I found that it was in strict accord
with the Bible and the gospel therein contained; that it purported to have been given to another
people, who then lived on this continent, as the Old and New Testaments had been given to the
Israelites in Asia. I also found many passages in the Bible in support of the forthcoming of
such a work, preparatory to the gathering of the remnant of the House of Israel, and the opening
glory of the Latter-day work, and the setting up of the Kingdom of God upon the earth for the
reception of the Son of Man, and the millennial reign of Christ upon the earth a thousand years;
all of which, to me, was of great moment. My whole soul was absorbed in these things.

My neighbor Stewart, who had just returned from Missouri, brought the most cheering and thrilling
accounts of the power and manifestations of the Holy Spirit working with that people; that
the spiritual gifts of the true believers in Christ were enjoyed by all who lived faithfully
and sought them; that there was no deception about it; that everyone had a testimony for himself,
and was not dependent upon another; that they had the gift of tongues, the interpretation of
those tongues, the power of healing the sick by the laying on of hands, prophesying, casting
out devils and evil spirits. All of which he declared, with words of soberness, to be true.

Stewart had been my playmate and my companion in former years. His word had great influence
on me, and strengthened my conviction that the Book of Mormon was true - that it was a star
opening the dispensation of the fullness of time. I believed the Book of Mormon was true, and,
if so, everything but my soul's salvation was a matter of secondary consideration to me. I
had a small fortune, a nice home, kind neighbors, and numerous friends, but nothing could shake
the determination I then formed to break up, sell out, and leave Illinois and go to the Saints
at Far West, Missouri.

My friends used every known argument to change my determination, but these words came into
my mind, "First seek the righteousness of the Kingdom of God, then all things necessary will
be added unto you "; and again, "What would it profit a man to gain the whole world and lose
his own soul?" or, "What could a man gain in exchange for his soul?" I was here brought to
the test, and my action was to decide on which I placed the most value - my earthly possessions
and enjoyments or my reward in future, the salvation of my never-dying soul. I took up my cross
and chose the latter. I sold out and moved to Far West. I took leave of my friends and made
my way to where the Saints had gathered in Zion. Our journey was one full of events interesting
to us, but not of sufficient importance to relate to the public. While on the journey I sold
most of my cattle on time to an old man, a friend of Stewart's - took his notes, and let him
keep them, which, as the sequel shows, was fortunate for me.

We arrived at Far West, the then headquarters of the Mormon Church, about the 4th day of June,
1838. The country around there for some fifteen or twenty miles, each way, was settled by Mormons.
I do not think any others lived within that distance. The Mormons who had been driven from
Jackson, Ray, and Clay counties, in 1833, settled in Caldwell and Daviess counties.

The night after our arrival at Far West there was a meeting to be held there. Stewart said to me:

"Let us go up and hear them speak with new tongues and interpret the same, and enjoy the gifts
of the gospel generally, for this is to be a prayer and testimony meeting."

"I want no signs," I said. "I believe the gospel they preach on principle and reason, not upon
signs - its consistency is all I ask. All I want are natural, logical, and reasonable arguments,
to make up my mind from."

The Sunday after, I attended church in Far West Hall. The hall was crowded with people, so
much so that I, with others, could not gain admittance to the building. I obtained standing
room in one of the windows. I saw a man enter the house without uncovering his head. The Prophet
ordered the Brother of Gideon to put that man out, for his presumption in daring to enter and
stand in the house of God without uncovering his head. This looked to me like drawing the lines
pretty snug and close; however, I knew but little of the etiquette of high life, and much less
about that of the Kingdom of Heaven. I looked upon Joseph Smith as a prophet of God - as one
who held the keys of this last dispensation, and I hardly knew what to think about the violent
manner in which the man was treated who had entered the house of God without taking his hat
off. But this did not lessen my faith; it served to confirm it. I was fearful that I might
in some way unintentionally offend the great and good man who stood as God's prophet on the
earth to point out the way of salvation.

We remained at the house of Elder Joseph Hunt, in Far West, several days. He was then a strong
Mormon, and was afterwards first captain in the Mormon Battalion. He, as an elder in the Church,
was a preacher of the gospel; all of his family were firm in the faith.

Elder Hunt preached to me the necessity of humility and a strict obedience to the gospel requirements
through the servants of God. He informed me that the apostles and elders were our true teachers,
and it was our duty to hear, learn, and obey; that the spirit of God was very fine and delicate,
and was easily grieved and driven from us: that the more humble we were, the more of the Holy
Spirit we would enjoy.

After staying in Far West about a week we moved about twenty miles, and settled on a stream
called Marrowbone, at a place called afterwards Ambrosia. Sunday, June 17, 1838, I attended
meeting. Samuel H. Smith, a brother of the Prophet, and Elder Daniel Cathcart preached. After
meeting I and my wife were baptized by Elder Cathcart, in Ambrosia, on Shady Grove Creek, in
Daviess County, Missouri. I was now a member of the Church, and expected to live in strict
obedience to the requirements of the holy priesthood that ruled, governed, and controlled it.
I must do this in order to advance in the scale of intelligence unto thrones, kingdoms, principalities,
and powers, and through faithfulness and fidelity to the cause receive eternal increase in
the mansions that would be prepared for me in my Father's kingdom.

Neighbor Stewart and myself each selected a place on the same stream, and near where his three
brothers, Riley, Jackson, and Urban, lived. On my location there was a spring of pure, cold
water; also a small lake fed by springs. This lake was full of fish, such as perch, bass, pickerel,
mullet, and catfish. It was surrounded by a grove of heavy timber, mostly hickory and oak.
We could have fish sufficient for use every day in the year if we desired.

My home on Ambrosia Creek reminded me of the one I had left on Luck Creek, Illinois; but it
was on more rolling land, and much healthier than the Illinois home had proven to us. I knew
I could soon replace, by labor, all the comfort I had abandoned when I started to seek my salvation.
I felt that I had greatly benefitted my condition by seeking first the Kingdom of Heaven and
its righteousness; all else, I felt, would be added unto me. But still I knew I must be frugal,
industrious, and use much care. I improved my farm as rapidly as I could, and was soon so fixed
that we were very comfortably established.

Meetings were held three times a week; also prayer and testimony meetings - at the latter sacrament
was administered. In these meetings, as well as in everything I was called upon to do, I tried
hard to give satisfaction. I was a devout follower from the first. Whatever duty was assigned
me I tried to discharge with a willing heart and ready hand. This disposition, on my part,
coupled with my views of duty, my promptness and punctuality, soon brought me to the notice
of the leading men of the Church.

The motives of the people who composed my neighborhood were pure; they were all sincere in
their devotions, and tried to square their actions through life by the golden rule - "Do unto
others as you would they should do unto you." The word of a Mormon was then good for all it
was pledged to or for. I was proud to associate with such an honorable people.

Twenty miles northeast of my home was the settlement of Adam-on- Diamond. It was on the east
bank of Grand River, near the Three Forks. Lyman White, one of the twelve apostles, was president
of that Stake of Zion. In July, 1838, Levi Stewart and myself concluded to visit the settlement
of Adam-on-Diamond. We remained over night at the house of Judge Mourning. He was a Democrat.
He told us that at the approaching election the Whigs were going to cast their votes, at the
outside precincts, early in the day, and then rush in force to the town of Gallatin, the county
seat of Daviess County, and prevent the Mormons from voting. The Judge requested us to inform
our people of the facts in the case, and for us to see that the Mormons went to the polls in
force, prepared to resist and overcome all violence that might be offered. He said the Whigs
had no right to deprive the Mormons of their right of suffrage, who had a right to cast their
votes as free and independent Americans.

The two political parties were about equally divided in Daviess County. The Mormons held the
balance of power, and could turn the scale whichever way they desired. I had heard of Judge
Mourning as a sharp political worker, and I then thought he was trying to carry out an electioneering
job for his party.

We visited our friends at Adam-on-Diamond, and returned home. While on this trip I formed the
acquaintance of Solomon McBrier, and purchased some cattle from him. He wished to sell me quite
a number, but as I did not want to be involved in debt I refused to take them. I had a perfect
horror of debt, for I knew that when a man was in debt he was in nearly every respect a slave,
and that if I got in debt it would worry me and keep my mind from that quiet repose so necessary
for contemplating the beauties of nature and communing with the Spirit regarding holy subjects.

Just before the election of August, 1838, a general notice was given for all the brethren of
Daviess County to meet at Adam-on- Diamond. Every man obeyed the call. At that meeting the
males over eighteen years of age were organized into a military body, according to the law
of the Priesthood, and called The Host of Israel. The first rank was a captain with ten men
under him; next was a captain of fifty - that is, he had five companies of ten; next, the captain
of a hundred, or of ten captains and companies of ten. The entire male membership of the Mormon
Church was then organized in the same way.

This, as I was informed, was the first organization of the military force of the Church. It
was so organized by command of God, as revealed through the Lord's prophet, Joseph Smith.

At the same Conference another organization was formed - it was called the Danites. The members
of this order were placed under the most sacred obligations that language could invent. They
were sworn to stand by and sustain each other; to sustain, protect, defend, and obey the leaders
of the Church, under any and all circumstances unto death; and to disobey the orders of the
leaders of the Church, or divulge the name of a Danite to an outsider, or to make public any
of the secrets of the order of Danites, was to be punished with death. And I can say of a truth,
many have paid the penalty for failing to keep their covenants.

They had signs and tokens for use and protection. The token of recognition was such that it
could be readily understood, and it served as a token of distress by which they could know
each other from their enemies, although they were entire strangers to each other. When the
sign was given it must be responded to and obeyed, even at the risk or certainty of death.
The Danite that would refuse to respect the token, and comply with all its requirements, was
stamped with dishonor, infamy, shame, disgrace, and his fate for cowardice and treachery was
death. I here pause, and ask myself the question:

"Am I justified in making the above statement?"

Those who think I am not should wait until they read the whole story. It is my purpose and
intention to free my mind and bring to light some of the secret workings of the Priesthood.

To return to the election at Gallatin: The brethren all attended the election. All things seemed
to pass off quietly, until some of the Mormons went up to the polls to vote. I was then lying
on the grass with McBrier and a number of others.

As the Mormons were going to the polls a drunken brute by the name of Richard Weldorp stepped
up to a little Mormon preacher by the name of Brown and said:

"Are you a Mormon preacher?"

"Yes, sir, I am."

"Do you Mormons believe in healing the sick by laying on of hands, speaking in tongues, and
casting out devils?"

"We do," said Brown.

Weldon then said, "You are a liar. Joseph Smith is an impostor."

With this, he attacked Brown, and beat him severely. Brown did not resent it, but tried to
reason with him; but without effect.

At this time a Mormon by the name of Hyrum Nelson attempted to pull Weldon off Brown, when
he was struck by half a dozen men on the head, shoulders, and face. He was soon forced to the
ground. Just then Riley Stewart struck Weldon across the back of the head with a billet of
oak lumber and broke his skull. Weldon fell on me, and appeared lifeless. The blood flowed
freely from the wound. Immediately the fight became general.

Gallatin was a new town, with about ten houses, three of which were saloons. The town was on
the bank of Grand River, and heavy timber came near the town, which stood in a little arm of
the prairie. Close to the polls there was a lot of oak timber which had been brought there
to be riven into shakes or shingles, leaving the heart, taken from each shingle-block, lying
there on the ground. These hearts were three square, four feet long, weighed about seven pounds,
and made a very dangerous, yet handy weapon; and when used by an enraged man they were truly
a class of instrument to be dreaded.

When Stewart fell the Mormons sprang to the pile of oak hearts, and each man, taking one for
use, rushed into the crowd. The Mormons were yelling:

"Save him!" and the settlers yelled:

"Kill him!"

The sign of distress was given by the Danites, and all rushed forward, determined to save Stewart,
or die with him. One of the mob stabbed Stewart in the shoulder. He rose and ran, trying to
escape, but was again surrounded and attacked by a large number of foes.

The Danite sign of distress was again given by John L. Butler, one of the captains of the Host
of Israel. Butler was a brave, true man, and a leader that it was a pleasure to follow where
duty called. Seeing the sign, I sprang to my feet and armed myself with one of the oak sticks.
I did this because I was a Danite, and my oaths that I had taken required immediate action
on my part in support of the one giving the sign. I ran into the crowd.

As I reached it I saw Nelson fighting for life. He was surrounded by a large number who were
seeking to murder him; but he had a loaded whip, the lash wrapped around his hand, using the
handle, which was loaded with several pounds of lead, as a weapon of defense. He was using
it with effect, for he had men piled around him in all shapes.

As I approached a man sprang to his feet. He had just been knocked down by Nelson. As the man
was rising Nelson gave him a blow across the loins with the handle of his whip, which had the
effect of straightening out the villain on the grass and rendered him an inoffensive spectator
during the remainder of the play.

Capt. Butler was then a stranger to me, and until I saw him give the Danite sign of distress
I believed him to be one of the Missouri ruffians who were our enemies. In this contest I came
near committing a serious mistake. I had raised my club to strike a man, when a Missourian
rushed at him and struck him with a loaded whip, and called him a cursed Mormon. The man then
gave the sign, and I knew how to act.

Capt. Butler was attacked from all sides, but being a powerful man he used his oak club with
effect and knocked a man down at each blow that he struck, and each man that felt the weight
of his weapon was out of the fight for that day at least. Many of those that he came in contact
with had to be carried from the field for surgical aid. In the battle, which was spirited,
but short in duration, nine men had their skulls broken, and many others were seriously injured
in other ways. The severe treatment of the mob by the Danites soon ended the battle.

Three hundred men were present at this difficulty, only thirty of whom were Mormons, and only
eight Mormons took part in the fight. I was an entire stranger to all who were engaged in the
affray, except Stewart, but I had seen the sign, and, like Samson when loaning against the
pillar, I felt the power of God nerve my arm for the fray. It helps a man a great deal in a
fight to know that God is on his side.

After the violence had ceased Capt. Butler called the Mormons to him, and as he stood on a
pile of building timber he made a speech to the brethren. He said that his ancestors had served
in the War of the Revolution to establish a free and independent government - one in which
all men had equal rights and privileges; that he professed to be half white and free born,
and claimed a right to enjoy his constitutional privileges, and would have his rights as a
citizen, if he had to fight for them; that as to his religion, it was a matter between his
God and himself, and no man's business; that he would vote, and would die before he would be
driven from the polls.

Several of the Gentile leaders then requested us to lay down our clubs and go and vote. This
Capt. Butler refused, saying:

"We will not molest anyone who lets us alone, but we will not risk ourselves again in that
crowd without our clubs."

The result was the Mormons all voted. It is surprising what a few resolute men can do when united.

It may be well for purposes of explanation to refer back to the celebration of the Declaration
of Independence on the 4th of July, 1838, at Far West. That day Joseph Smith made known to
the people the substance of a Revelation he had received from God. It was to the effect that
all the Saints throughout the land were required to sell their possessions, gather all their
money together, and send an agent to buy up all the land in the region round about Far West,
and get a patent for the land from the Government, then deed it over to the Church; then every
man should come up there to the land of their promised inheritance and consecrate what he had
to the Lord.

In return the Prophet would set apart a tract of land for each Saint - the amount to correspond
with the number of the Saint's family - and this land should be for each Saint an everlasting
inheritance. In this way the people could, in time, redeem Zion (Jackson County) without the
shedding of blood. It was also revealed that unless this was done, in accordance with God's
demand, as required by Him in the Revelation then given to the people through his Prophet,
Joseph Smith, the Saints would be driven from State to State, from city to city, from one abiding
place to another, until the members would die and waste away, leaving but a remnant of the
Saints to return and receive their inheritance in Zion (Jackson County) in the last days.

Sidney Rigdon was then the mouthpiece of Joseph Smith, as Aaron was of Moses in olden times.
Rigdon told the Saints that day that if they did not come up as true Saints and consecrate
their property to the Lord, by laying it down at the feet of the apostles, they would in a
short time be compelled to consecrate and yield it up to the Gentiles; that if the Saints would
be united as one man, in this consecration of their entire wealth to the God of Heaven, by
giving it up to the control of the Apostolic Priesthood, then there would be no further danger
to the Saints; they would no more be driven from their homes on account of their faith and
holy works, for the Lord had revealed to Joseph Smith that He would then fight the battles
of His children, and save them from all their enemies; that the Mormon people would never be
accepted as the children of God unless they were united as one man, in temporal as well as
spiritual affairs, for Jesus had said unless ye are one, ye are not Mine; that oneness must
exist to make the Saints the accepted children of God; that if the Saints would yield obedience
to the commands of the Lord all would be well, for the Lord had confirmed these promises by
a Revelation which He had given to Joseph Smith, in which it was said:

"I, the Lord, will fight the battles of my people, and if your enemies shall come up against
you, spare them, and if they shall come up against you again, then shall ye spare them also;
oven unto the third time shall ye spare them; but if they come up against you the fourth time,
I, the Lord, will deliver them into your hands, to do with them as seemeth good unto you; but
if you then spare them it shall be accounted unto you for righteousness."

The words of the apostle, and the promises of God, as then revealed to me, made a deep impression
on my mind, as it did upon all who heard the same. We that had given up all else for the sake
of the gospel felt willing to do anything on earth that it was possible to do to obtain the
protection of God, and have and receive His smile of approbation. Those who, like me, had full
faith in the teachings of God, as revealed by Joseph Smith, His Prophet, were willing to comply
with every order, and to obey every wish of the Priesthood.

The majority of the people, however, felt like Ananias and Sapphira - they dare not trust all
to God and His Prophet. They felt that their money was as safe in their own possession as it
was when held by the Church authorities. A vote of the people was had to determine - the question
whether they would consecrate their wealth to the Church, or not. The vote was taken and was
unanimous for the consecration. I soon found out that the people had voted as I have often
known them to do in Mormon meetings since then; they vote to please the Priesthood, then act
to suit themselves. I never thought that was right or honest; men should vote their sentiments,
but they do not at all times do so. I have been the victim of such hypocrites.

The vote, as I said, was taken. It was done by a show of hands, but not a show of hearts. By
the readiness with which all hands went up in favor of consecration it was declared that the
people were of a truth God's children, and, as such, would be protected by Him. The Prophet
and all his Priesthood were jubilant, and could hardly contain themselves; they were so happy
to see the people such dutiful Saints.

Sidney Rigdon on that day delivered an oration, in which he said the Mormons were, as a people,
loyal to the Government, obedient to the laws, and as such they were entitled to the protection
of the Government in common with all other denominations, and were justified in claiming as
full protection, in their religious matters, as the people of any other sect; that the Mormons
had suffered from mob rule and violence, but would no longer submit to the mob or unjust treatment
that had so long followed them. Now and forevermore would they meet force with force.

"We have been driven from Kirkland," said he; "from Jackson County, the true Zion; and now
we will maintain our rights, defend our homes, our wives and children, and our property from
mob rule and violence. If the Saints are again attacked, we will carry on a war of extermination
against our enemies, even to their homes and firesides, until we despoil those who have despoiled
us, and give no quarter until our enemies are wasted away. We will unfurl to the breeze the
flag of our nation, and under that banner of freedom we will maintain our rights, or die in
the attempt."

At the end of each sentence Rigdon was loudly cheered; and when he closed his oration I believed
the Mormons could successfully resist the world. But this feeling of confidence faded away
as soon as a second thought entered my mind. I then feared that the days of liberty for our
people had been numbered. First, I feared the people would not give up all their worldly possessions,
to be disposed of by and at the will and pleasure of three men. In the second place, I doubted
the people being so fully regenerated as to entitle them to the full and unconditional support
and favor of God that had been promised through the Revelation to Joseph Smith, in favor of
the Latter-day Saints. I knew that God was able and willing to do all He had promised, but
I feared that the people still loved worldly pleasures so well that God's mercy would be rejected
by them, and all would be lost.

About three days after the proclamation of Rigdon had been made there was a storm of rain,
during which the thunder and lightnings were constant and terrible. The liberty pole in the
town was struck by lightning and shivered to atoms. This evidence from the God of nature also
convinced me that the Mormon people's liberties, in that section of the country, were not to
be of long duration.

CHAPTER IV - THE SAINTS BESET WITH TROUBLES

      The Saints did not consecrate their possessions as they had
so recently voted they would do; they began to reflect, and the
final determination was that they could manage their worldly
effects better than any one of the apostles; in fact, better than
the Prophet and the Priesthood combined. Individual Saints
entered large tracts of land in their own names, and thereby
secured all of the most desirable land round about Far West.
These landed proprietors became the worst kind of extortionists,
and forced the poor Saints to pay them large advances for every
acre of land that was settled, and nothing could be called free
from the control of the money power of the rich and headstrong
Mormons who had defied the revelations and wishes of God.

So things went from bad to worse, until the August election at Gallatin referred to. The troubles
of that day brought the Church and Saints to a standstill; business was paralyzed; alarm seized
the stoutest hearts, and dismay was visible in every countenance. The Prophet issued an order
to gather all the people at Far West and Adam-on-Diamond, under the leadership of Col. Lyman
White, for the purpose of protecting the people from mob violence, and to save their property
from lawless thieves who were roaming the country in armed bands.

The Gentiles and Mormons hastened to the executive of the State. The Gentiles asked for a military
force to protect the settlers from Mormon violence. The Mormons requested, an investigating
committee to inquire into the whole subject and suggest means necessary for future safety to
each party. Also they demanded military protection from the mobs and outlaws that infested
the country.

The Governor sent troops to keep order. They were stationed about midway between Far West and
Adam-on-Diamond. A committee was also appointed and sent to Gallatin to inquire into the recent
disturbances. This committee had full power to send for witnesses, make arrests of persons
accused of crime, and generally to do all things necessary for a full and complete investigation
of the entire affair.

Many arrests were made at the request of the committee. The persons so arrested were taken
before Justice Black, of Daviess County, and examined; witnesses were examined for both parties,
and much hard and false swearing was done on both sides. After a long and fruitless examination
the committee adjourned, leaving the military to look after matters until something would turn
up to change the feeling of danger then existing. It was thought by the committee that all
would soon become quiet and peace would be restored.

The Gentiles of the country were dissatisfied with the action of the committee and in no way
disposed to accept peace on any terms; they determined that, come what would, the Mormons should
be driven from the State of Missouri. Letters were written by the Gentiles around Far West
to all parts of the State, and elsewhere, giving the most fearful accounts of Mormon atrocities.
Some of the writers said it was useless to send less than three or four men for each Mormon,
because the Mormons felt sure of heaven if they fell fighting, hence they did not fear death;
that they fought with the desperation of devils.

Such reports spread like wildfire throughout northern Missouri, and thence all over the States
of the Mississippi Valley, and resulted in creating a feeling of the most intense hatred in
the breasts of all the Gentiles against the Mormons. Companies of volunteers were raised and
armed in every town throughout northern Missouri, and commenced concentrating in the vicinity
of the Mormon settlements. The troops sent by the Governor to guard the settlers and preserve
order soon took part with the mob, and all show for legal protection was gone, so far as Mormons
were concerned. I had built a cabin in the valley of Adam-on-Diamond, at the point where the
Prophet said Adam blessed his posterity after being driven from the Garden of Eden.

The condition of the country being such that we could not labor on our farms, I concluded to
go and hunt for wild honey. Several of my neighbors were to join me in my bee hunt, and we
started with our teams, and traveled northeasterly until we reached the heavy timber at the
three forks of Grand River. We camped on the middle fork of Grand River, and had fine success
in securing honey.

We had been out at camp only two or three days when we discovered signs of armed men rushing
through the country. On the 3d of October, 1838, we saw a large number of men that we knew
were enemies to the Mormons on their way, as we supposed, to attack our people at the settlements.
I concluded to go and meet them, and find out for certain what they were really intending to
do. I was forced to act with caution, for, if they discovered that we were Mormons, our lives
would be taken by the desperate men composing the mob who called themselves State volunteers.
I took my gun and carrying a bucket on my arm started out to meet the people and learn their
intentions. I met them just after they had broken camp on Sunday morning.

As soon as I saw them I was certain they were out hunting for Mormons. I concluded to pass
myself off as an outsider, the better to learn their history. My plan worked admirably. I stood
my ground until a company of eighteen men rode up to me, and said:

"You move early."

"Not so early, gentlemen; I am not moving any sooner than you are. What are you all doing in
this part of the country, armed to the teeth as you are? Are you hunting for Indians?"

"No," said they, "but we wish to know where you are from, and what you are doing."

"I am from Illinois; there are four of us who have come out here to look up a good location
to settle. We stopped on Marrowbone, and did think of staying there, until the settlers and
Mormons got into a row at Gallatin, on election day. After that we concluded to strike out
and see what this country looked like. I am now going to cut a bee tree that I found yesterday
evening, and I brought my gun along so that if I met an old buck I could secure some venison
to eat with my honeycomb."

As I got through they all huddled around me and commenced to relate the horrors of Mormonism.
They advised me to have nothing to do with the Mormons, for said they:

"As old Joe Smith votes, so will every Mormon in the country vote, and when they get into a
fight they are just the same way; they stick together. When you attack one of the crew you
bring every one of them after you like a nest of hornets."

To this I replied that I had heard a little of the fuss at Gallatin, but did not suppose I
had got the right of the story, and would be glad if they would tell me just how it was. I
should like to learn the facts from an eyewitness. Several of the men spoke up and said they
were there and saw it all. They then told the story, and did the Mormons more justice than
I expected from them.

They said, among other things, that there was a large rawboned man there who spoke in tongues,
and that when the fight commenced he cried:

"Charge, Danites!"

They then said the Mormons must leave the country.

"If we do not make them do so now, they will be so strong in a few years they will rule the
country as they please. Another band of men will come along soon; and they will then go through
the Mormon settlements and burn up every house, and lynch every Mormon they find. The militia
has been sent to keep order in Daviess County, but will soon be gone, and the work of destroying
the Mormons begin."

"If they have done as you say they have, pay them in their own coin," I said.

The company then passed on, and I returned with a heavy heart to my friends. I advised making
an immediate start for home, and in a few minutes we were on our way.

While coming up from home we had found four bee trees, that we left standing, intending to
cut them down and get the honey as we went back. When we got on the prairie, which was about
eight miles across, the men with me wanted to go and get the honey. I was fearful that the
people I had met in the morning would attack the settlements, and I wanted to go directly home
and let trees and honey alone.

While we were talking the matter over a single blackbird came to us, apparently in great distress.
It flew around each one of us, and would alight on the head of each one of our horses, and
especially on my horses' heads, and it even came and alighted on my hat, and would squeak as
though it was in pain, and turn its feathers up, and acted as if it wished to warn us of danger.
Then it flew off towards the settlements where I wished to go.

All admitted that these were strange actions for a bird, but they still insisted on going to
cut the bee trees. I was persuaded to go with them. We had gone a quarter of a mile further
when the blackbird returned to us and went through the same performance as before, and again
flew off toward the settlement.

This was to me a warning to go home at once; that there was danger there to my family. I then
proposed that we all join in prayer. We did so, and I prayed to the Author of our existence,
and asked that if it was His will for us to go home at once, and if the blackbird had been
sent as a warning messenger, to let it return again, and I would follow it. We then traveled
on some two miles, when the messenger returned the third time and appeared, if possible, more
determined than before to turn us towards home. I turned my team and started, as straight as
I could go, for Adam-on-Diamond.

As we passed over the prairie we saw the smoke rising from many farms and houses in the vicinity
of where we had left our bee trees. This smoke showed us that our enemies were at work, and
that had we kept on in the course we were first intending to travel we would have fallen into
the hands of the lawless and lost our lives.

Before we got home the news of the attack upon the settlements had reached there. It was also
reported, and we afterwards learned that the report was true, that many of the Mormon settlers
had been tied to trees and whipped with hickory withes, some of them being horribly mangled
by the mob. This conduct on the part of the Gentiles roused every Mormon to action, and the
excitement was very great.

Joseph the Prophet was then sent for. Col. White called together every man and boy that could
carry arms. When the forces were assembled Col. White made a war speech. As he spoke he stood
by his fine brown horse. There was a bearskin on his saddle. He had a red handkerchief around
his head, regular Indian fashion, with the knot in front; he stood bareheaded, in his shirt
sleeves, with collar open, showing his naked breast. He held a large cutlass in his right hand.
His manner of address struck terror to his enemies, while it charged his brethren with enthusiastic
zeal and forced them to believe they were invincible and bullet-proof. We were about three
hundred and seventy-five strong. I stood near Col. White while he was speaking, and I judge
of its effect upon others by the way it affected me.

While our Colonel was in the midst of his speech the aid-de-camp of the militia colonel came
up with a dispatch to Col. White, to the effect that the militia had become mutinous and could
no longer be controlled, but were going to join the mob; that the colonel would disband his
forces, and would then go and report to the Governor the true condition of the country; that
Col. White must take and make use of all the means in his power to protect the people from
the mob, for the Government officers were powerless to aid him.

The aid did not deliver his message, for as he rode up close to where Col. White was standing
speaking to his men, he stopped and listened a short time; then he wheeled his horse and rode
back to the militia camp and reported that Col. White had fifteen thousand men under arms,
in battle array, and would be upon their camp in less than two hours; that he was then making
a speech to the army, and that it was the most exciting speech he had ever listened to in his
life; that he meant war, and of the most fearful kind, and the only safety for their forces
was in instant retreat. The soldiers broke camp and left in haste. I cannot say that the colonel
commanding the militia was alarmed, or that he fled through fear of being overcome; but it
suited him to leave, for he was anxious to prevent a collision between his troops and the men
under Col. White.

Joseph, when informed of the danger of the settlers from mob violence, sent Maj. Seymour Brunson,
of Far West, with fifty men to protect the settlers who lived on the two forks of the Grand
River. Col. White kept his men in readiness for action. A strong guard was posted round the
settlement; a point was agreed upon to which place all were to hasten in case of alarm. This
point of meeting was east of the town, under the bluffs, on the main road leading from Mill
Port to Adam-on-Diamond.

This road ran between the fields and bluff. We expected to be attacked every hour. A few nights
afterwards the alarm was given, and every man rushed to the field. When I reached the command
I found everything in confusion. The officer in command tried to throw two companies across
the road, but the firing was heavy and constant from the opposing forces, who had selected
a strong point for the purpose of attack and defense. The flash of the rifles and the ringing
reports that echoed through the hills at each discharge of the guns added to the confusion,
and soon forced the Mormons to take up their position in the fence corners and elsewhere, so
they could be in a measure protected from the bullets of the enemy. Soon there was order in
our ranks, and we were prepared to dislodge our opponents or die in the attempt, when two men
came at the full speed of their horses, shouting:

"Peace! peace! Cease firing, it is our friends."

Chapman Duncan, the adjutant of Col. White, was the one who shouted peace. We were then informed
that the men we had taken for a part of the Gentile mob were no other than the command of Maj.
Brunson, who had been out on Three Forks to defend the settlers, and that he had been ordered
back to the main body of the Hosts of Israel. They had intended to stop at Mill Port, but finding
it deserted they concluded to alarm the troops at Adam- on-Diamond, so as to learn whether
they would fight or not. I admit that I was much pleased to learn that danger was over and
we were facing friends and not enemies; yet I was mad to think men would impose upon us in
that way. The experiment was a dangerous one, and likely to be very serious in its consequences.
The other men with me were equally wroth at the insult offered by those who had been so foolish
as to question our bravery.

The withdrawal of the State militia was the signal for the Gentiles to give vent to the worst
of their inclinations. The Mormons, at command of the Prophet, at once abandoned their homes,
taking what could be carried with them, and hastened to either Far West or Adam-on-Diamond
for protection and safety. Some few refused to obey orders, and they afterwards paid the penalty
for disobedience by giving up their lives to the savage Gentiles who attacked and well-nigh
exterminated them.

Armed men roamed in bands all over Caldwell, Carroll, and Daviess counties; both Mormons and
Gentiles were under arms, doing injury to each other when occasion offered. The burning of
houses, farms, and stacks of grain was generally indulged in by each party. Lawlessness prevailed,
and pillage was the rule.

The Prophet Joseph said it was a civil war, and that by the rules of war each party was justified
in spoiling his enemy. This opened the door, and men of former quiet became perfect demons
in their efforts to spoil and waste away the enemies of the Church. I then found that men are
creatures of circumstances, and that the occasion calls forth the men needed for each enterprise.

I also soon saw that it was the natural inclination of men to convert to their own use that
which others possessed. What perplexed me most was to see how religion had not the power to
subdue that passion in man, but at the first moment when the restrictions of the Church were
withdrawn the most devout in our community acted like natural-born thieves.

Being young, stout, and having plenty of property, I fitted myself out in first-class style.
I had good horses and plenty of the best of arms. I joined in the general patrol duty, and
took part in daily raids made under either Maj. Brunson or Capt. Alexander McRay. I saw much
of what was being done by both parties. I also made several raids under Capt. Jonathan Dunham,
alias Black Hawk. I remember one incident that was amusing at the time, as it enabled us to
determine what part of our forces would fight on the field and face the enemy, and also those
who preferred to fight with their mouths.

Early in the morning, while Maj. Brunson's men were marching along, shivering in the cold -
for it was a dark, cloudy morning late in October, 1838 - we saw a company of horsemen some
three miles away. We concluded they were Missourians, and made for them at full speed. They
halted and appeared willing to fight. When our command got within three hundred yards of them
many of our pulpit braves found out all at once that they must stop and dismount to fix their
saddles or for some other reason. The remainder of us rode on until within one hundred and
fifty yards of the other force, and were drawn up in line of battle. Maj. Brunson rode forward
and hailed them, saying,

"Who are you?"

"Capt. McRay," was the reply. "Who are you?"

"Maj. Brunson."

They met and shook hands. Seeing this the pulpit braves rushed up in great haste and took their
places in the ranks, and lamented because we did not have an enemy to overcome.

So it is through life - a coward is generally a liar; those men were cowards, and lied when
they pretended they would like to fight. All cowards are liars, but many liars are brave men.

While I was engaged with the Mormon troops in ranging over the country, the men that I was
with took a large amount of loose property, but did not while I was with them burn any houses
or murder any men. Yet we took what property we could find, especially provisions, fat cattle,
arms, and ammunition. But still many houses were burned and much damage was done by the Mormons,
and they captured a howitzer and many guns from the Gentiles. Frequent attacks were also made
upon the Mormon settlements.

The Mormons made an attack on Gallatin one night, and carried off much plunder. I was not there
with them, but I talked often with others and learned all the facts about it. The town was
burned down, and everything of value, including the goods in two stores, carried off by the
Mormons. I often escaped being present with the troops by loaning my horses and arms to others
who liked that kind of work better than I did. Unless I had adopted that course I could never
have escaped from being with the Hosts of Israel, for I was one of the regular Host, and could
not avoid going when ordered, unless I furnished a substitute, which sometimes was accepted,
but not always.

Once a company went from Adam-on-Diamond and burned the house and buildings belonging to my
friend McBrier. Every article of movable property was taken by the troops; he was utterly ruined.
This man was an honorable man, but mere good character, and properly, had no effect on those
who were working to build up the Kingdom of God.

The Mormons brought in every article that could be used, and much that was of no use or value
was hauled to Adam-on-Diamond. Such acts had the effect of arousing every Gentile in the three
counties of Caldwell, Carroll, and Daviess, as well as to bring swarms of armed Gentiles from
other localities.

Brother Lyman White, with three hundred men, was called to defend Far West. I went with his
command. The night White reached Far West the battle of Crooked River was fought. Capt. David
Patton, alias Fear Not, one of the twelve apostles, had been sent out by the Prophet with fifty
men to attack a body of Missourians who were camping on the Crooked River. Capt. Patton's men
were nearly all, if not every one of them, Danites. The attack was made just before daylight
in the morning. Fear Not wore a white blanket overcoat, and led the attacking party. He was
a brave, impulsive man. He rushed into the thickest of the fight, regardless of danger - really
seeking it to show his men that God would shield him from all harm. But he counted without
just reason upon being invincible, for a ball soon entered his body, passing through his hips.
The wound was fatal; but he kept on his feet and led his men some time before yielding to the
effects of the wound.

The Gentiles said afterwards that Capt. Patton told his men to charge in the name of Lazarus:

"Charge, Danites, charge!"

As soon as he uttered the command which distinguished him they gave the Danite captain a commission
with powder and ball, and sent him on to preach to the spirits.

In this battle several men were killed and wounded on both sides. I do not remember all of
the names of the Danites that were killed, but I do remember that a man by the name of Banion
was killed, and one by the name of Holbrook wounded. I knew a man by the name of Tarwater,
on the Gentile side, that was cut up fearfully. He was taken prisoner. The Danites routed the
Gentiles, who fled in every direction. The night being dark, Holbrook and another Danite met
and had a hand-to-hand fight, in which they cut each other fearfully with their swords before
they discovered that they were friends.

After the Gentiles retreated the Mormons started for Far West, taking Tarwater along as a prisoner.
After traveling several miles they halted in a grove of timber and released Tarwater, telling
him he was free to go home. He started off, and when he was some forty yards from the Mormons
Parley P. Pratt, then one of the twelve apostles, stepped to a tree, laid his gun up by the
side of the tree, took deliberate aim, and shot Tarwater. He fell and lay still. The Mormons
went on and left him lying where he fell.

CHAPTER V - THE MORMON WAR

After 1844 it was my habit to keep a journal, in which I wrote at length all that I considered
worthy of remembering. Most of my journals, written up to 1860, were called for by Brigham,
under the plea that he wished the Church historian to write up the Mormon history, and wanted
my journals to aid him in making the history perfect. As these journals contained many things
not intended for the public eye concerning the Mormon leaders and all I knew of the Mountain
Meadows Massacre, and what led to it, they were never returned to me.

To proceed: I was at Far West when the Danites returned. They brought Capt. Patton with them.
He died that night, and his death spread a mantle of gloom over the entire community. It robbed
many of their fond hope that they were invincible. If Fear Not could be killed, who then might
claim immunity from the missiles of death hurled by Gentile weapons?

Up to this time I firmly believed what the Prophet and his apostles had said on that subject.
I had considered that I was bullet-proof, that no Gentile ball could ever harm me or any Saint,
and I believed that a Danite could not be killed by Gentile hands. I thought that one Danite
would chase a thousand Gentiles, and two could put ten thousand to flight.

Alas! my dream of security was over. One of our mighty men had fallen, and by Gentile hands.
My amazement at the fact was equal to my sorrow for the death of the great warrior apostle.
I had considered that all the battles between Danites and Gentiles would end like the election
fight at Gallatin, and the only ones to be injured would be the Gentiles.

We had been promised and taught by the Prophet and his Priesthood that henceforth God would
fight our battles, and I looked as a consequence for a bloodless victory on the side of the
Lord, and that nothing but disobedience to the teachings of the Priesthood could render a Mormon
subject to injury from Gentile forces. I believed as our leaders taught us, that all our sufferings
and persecutions were brought upon us by the all-wise God of Heaven as chastisement to bring
us together in unity of faith and strict obedience to the requirements of the Gospel; and the
feeling was general that all our sufferings were the result of individual sin, and not the
fault of our leaders and spiritual guides.

We, as members of the Church, had no right to question any act of our superiors; to do so wounded
the Spirit of God, and would lead to our own loss and confusion. Still, I was thunderstruck
to hear Joseph the Apostle say at the funeral of Capt. Patton that the Mormons fell by the
missiles of death the same as other men. He also said that the Lord was angry with the people,
for they had been unbelieving and faithless; they had denied the Lord the use of their earthly
treasures, and placed their affections upon worldly things more than upon heavenly things;
that to expect God's favor we must blindly trust him; that if the Mormons would wholly trust
in God the windows of heaven would be opened and a shower of blessings sent upon the people;
that all the people could contain of blessings would be given as a reward for obedience to
the will of God as made known to mankind through the Prophet of the ever-living God; that the
Mormons, if faithful, obedient, and true followers of the advice of their leaders, would soon
enjoy all the wealth of the earth; that God would consecrate the riches of the Gentiles to
the Saints.

This and much more he said to induce the people to obey the will of the Priesthood. I believed
all he said, for he supported it by quotations from Scripture, and if I believed the Bible,
as I did most implicitly, I could not help believing in Joseph, the prophet of God in these
last days, Joseph declared that he was called of God and given power and authority from heaven
to do God's will; that he had received the keys of the holy Priesthood from the apostles Peter,
James, and John, and had been dedicated, set apart, and anointed as the prophet, seer, and
revelator, and sent to open the dispensation of the fullness of time, according to the words
of the apostles; that he was charged with the restoration of the House of Israel, and to gather
the Saints from the four corners of the earth to the land of promise, Zion, the Holy Land (Jackson
County), and to the setting up of the Kingdom of God preparatory to the second coming of Christ
in the last days. Every Mormon, true to his faith, believed as fully in Joseph and his holy
character as he did that God existed.

The Prophet Joseph was a most extraordinary man; he was rather large in stature, some six feet
two inches in height, well built, though a little stoop-shouldered, with prominent and well-
developed features, a Roman nose, light chestnut hair, upper lip full and rather protruding,
chin broad and square, and an eagle eye, and on the whole had something in his manner and appearance
that was bewitching and winning; his countenance was that of a plain, honest man, full of benevolence
and philanthropy and void of deceit or hypocrisy. He was resolute and firm of purpose, strong
as most men in physical power, and all who saw were forced to admire him, as he then looked
and existed. In the sports of the day, such as wrestling, he was over the average. Very few
of the Saints had the strength needed to throw the Prophet in a fair tussle. In every gathering
he was a welcome guest, and always added to the amusement of the people, instead of dampening
their ardor.

During the time that we were camping at Adam-on-Diamond, waiting to see what would be the result
of the quarrel between our Church and the Gentiles, one Sunday morning (it had rained heavily
the night before and the air was cold) the men were shivering over a few firebrands, feeling
out of sorts and quite cast down. The Prophet came up while the brethren were moping around
and caught first one and then another and shook them up, and said:

"Get out of here, and wrestle; jump, run, do anything but mope around; warm yourselves up;
this inactivity will not do for soldiers."

The words of the Prophet put life and energy into the men. A ring was soon formed, according
to the custom of the people. The Prophet stepped into the ring, ready for a tussle with any
comer. Several went into the ring to try their strength, but each one was thrown by the Prophet,
until he had thrown several of the stoutest of the men present. Then he stepped out of the
ring and took a man by the arm and led him in to take his place, and so it continued - the
men who were thrown retiring in favor of the successful one. A man would keep the ring so long
as he threw his adversary.

The style of wrestling varied with the desires of the parties. The Eastern men, or Yankees,
used square hold, or collar and elbow; those from the Middle States side hold, and the Southern
and Western men used breeches hold and old Indian hug or back hold. If a man was hurt he stood
it without a murmur; it was considered cowardly and childish to whine when thrown or hurt in
the fall.

While the sport was at its height Sidney Rigdon, the mouthpiece of the Prophet, rushed into
the ring, sword in hand, and said that he would not suffer a lot of men to break the Sabbath
day in that manner. For a moment all were silent. Then one of the brethren, with more presence
of mind than the others, said to the Prophet:

"Brother Joseph, we want you to clear us from blame, for we formed the ring by your request.
You told us to wrestle, and now Brother Rigdon is bringing us to account for it."

The Prophet walked into the ring and said, as he made a motion with his hand:

"Brother Sidney, you had better get out of here and let the boys alone; they are amusing themselves
according to my orders. You are an old man. You go and get ready for meeting and let the boys
alone." Just then catching Rigdon off his guard, as quick as a flash he knocked the sword from
Rigdon's hand, then caught him by the shoulder, and said: "Now, old man, you must go out, or
I will throw you down."

Rigdon was as large a man as the Prophet, but not so tall. The prospect of a tussle between
the Prophet and the mouthpiece of the Prophet was fun for all but Rigdon, who pulled back like
a crawfish; but the resistance was useless, the Prophet dragged him from the ring, bareheaded,
and tore Rigdon's fine pulpit coat from the collar to the waist; then he turned to the men
and said:

"Go in, boys, and have your fun. You shall never have it to say that I got you into any trouble
that I did not get you out of."

Rigdon complained about the loss of his hat and the tearing of his coat. The Prophet said to him:

"You were out of your place. Always keep your place and you will not suffer: but you got a
little out of your place and you have suffered for it. You have no one to blame but yourself."

After that Rigdon never countermanded the orders of the Prophet, to my knowledge; he knew who
was boss.

An order had been issued by the Church authorities commanding all the members of the Mormon
Church to leave their farms and take such property as they could remove and go to one of the
two fortified camps - that is Far West or Adam-on-Diamond. A large majority of the settlers
obeyed, and the two camps were soon full of people who had deserted home again for the sake
of the gospel.

There was a settlement on Log Creek, between three and five miles east from Far West. It was
quite a rich settlement. A man named Haughn had just completed a good flouring mill on the
creek. The morning after the battle of Crooked River Haughn came to Far West to consult with
the Prophet concerning the policy of the removal of the settlers on Log Creek to the fortified
camps.

Col. White and myself were standing by when the Prophet said to him:

"Move in, by all means, if you wish to save your lives."

Haughn replied that if the settlers left their homes all of their property would be lost, and
the Gentiles would burn their houses and other buildings. The Prophet said:

"You had much better lose your property than your lives; one can be replaced, the other cannot
be restored; but there is no need of your losing either if you will only do as you are commanded."

Haughn said that he considered the best plan was for all of the settlers to move into and around
the mill, and use the blacksmith's shop and other buildings as a fort in case of attack; in
this way he thought they would be perfectly safe.

"You are at liberty to do so if you think best," said the Prophet.

Haughn then departed, well satisfied that he had carried his point. The Prophet turned to Col.
White and said:

"That man did not come for counsel, but to induce me to tell him to do as he pleased; which
I did. Had I commanded them to move in and leave their property they would have called me a
tyrant. I wish they were here for their own safety. I am confident that we will soon learn
that they have been butchered in a fearful manner."

At this time the Missourians had determined to exterminate the whole of the Mormon people.
Governor Lilburn W. Boggs issued orders to that effect. I think Gen. Clark was the officer
in command of all the Gentile forces. Gen. Atchison and Col. Doniphan each commanded a division
of from three to four thousand men, and they soon besieged Far West. The Mormons fortified
the town as well as they could, and took special care to fortify and build shields and breastworks,
to prevent the cavalry from charging into the town. The Gentile forces were mostly camped on
Log Creek, between Far West and Haughn's Mill, about a mile from Far West, and about half a
mile south of our outer breastworks.

Our scouts and pickets guards were driven in and forced to join the main ranks for safety.
The Mormon troops were placed in position by the officers, so as to guard every point. We all
had a large supply of bullets, with the patching sewed on the balls to facilitate the loading
of our guns, which were muzzle loaders. The Mormon force was about eight hundred strong, poorly
armed; many of the men had no guns; some had single-barrel pistols and a few homemade swords.
These were our implements of war.

So situated, we were still anxious to meet the enemy, and demanded to be led out against our
foes. Our men were confident that God was going to deliver the enemy into our hands, and so
we had no fears. I was one of the advance force, and as I lay behind some timber, with my cap-box
open, and bullets lying on the ground by my side, I never had a doubt of being able to defeat
the Gentile army.

The troops lay and watched each other several days, then the Gentiles made two efforts to force
their way into the town by stratagem; but seeing our forces in order they did not come within
range of our guns. The Mormons stood in the ranks, and prayed for the chance of getting a shot;
but all to no effect. The same evening we learned of the massacre at Haughn's Mill. The description
of this massacre was such as to freeze the blood of each Saint, and force us to swear that
revenge should come some day.

The massacre was reported about as follows to us at Far West. When the Gentile mob attacked
the Mormons at the mill the Mormons took shelter in the blacksmith shop and other buildings.
The mob took advantage of the banks of the creek and the timber, and very nearly surrounded
the shop, which was built of logs, and served as a slaughterhouse instead of a shelter or protection.

The mob, while protected as they were, shot down the Mormons at their leisure. They killed
eighteen and wounded as many more; in fact, they killed and wounded everyone who did not run
away during the fight and take refuge in the woods. After shooting down all that could be seen,
the mob entered the blacksmith shop and there found a young lad who had secreted himself under
the bellows. One of the men said:

"Don't shoot; it is but a small boy."

"It is best to hive them when we can," was the reply.

Thus saying, they shot the little fellow.

There was an old man in the settlement by the name of McBride, who had been a soldier in the
Revolutionary War; he was killed by being hacked to pieces with a corncutter while begging
for his life. The dead and wounded were thrown into a well together. Several of the wounded
were afterwards taken out of the well by the force that went from Far West, and recovered from
their wounds. So great was the hatred of the mob that they saved none, but killed all who fell
into their hands at that time. I received my information of the massacre from David Lewis,
Tarleton Lewis, William Laney, and Isaac Laney; they were Kentuckians, and were also in the
fight, but escaped death.

Isaac Laney was shot seven times, the seven shots leaving thirteen ball holes in his person;
five of the shots were nearly in the center of the chest; one entered under the right arm,
passed through the body and came out under the left arm; yet, strange as it appears, he kept
his feet, and ran some three hundred yards to a cabin, where a woman raised a loose plank of
the cabin floor and he lay down while she replaced the boards.

The mob left, and in about two hours Laney was taken from under the cabin floor nearly lifeless.
He was then washed, anointed with oil, the elders praying for his recovery, according to the
order of the Holy Priesthood, and he was promised, through prayer and faith in God, speedy
restoration. The pain at once left him, and for two weeks he felt no pain at all. He then took
cold, and the wound in his hips pained him for some two hours, when the elders repeated their
prayers and again anointed him, which had the effect desired. The pain left him, and never
returned. I heard Laney declare this to be a fact, and he bore his testimony in the presence
of many of the Saints. I saw him four weeks after the massacre and examined his person. I saw
the wounds, then healed. I felt of them with my own hands, and I saw the shirt and examined
it, that he had on when he was shot, and it was cut in shreds. Many balls had cut his clothing
that had not touched his person.

The massacre at Haughn's Mill was the result of the brethren's refusal to obey the wishes of
the Prophet. All the brethren so considered it. It made a deep and lasting impression on my
mind, for I had heard the Prophet give the counsel to the brethren to come into the town. They
had refused, and the result was a lesson to all that there was no safety except in obeying
the Prophet.

Col. George M. Hinkle had command of the troops at Far West, under the Prophet Joseph. He was
from Kentucky, and considered a fair-weather Saint. When danger came he was certain to be on
the strong side. He was a fine speaker, and had great influence with the Saints. Previous to
the attack on Far West Col. Hinkle had come to an understanding with the Gentile commanders
that in case the danger grew great they could depend on him as a friend and one through whom
they could negotiate and learn the situation of affairs in the camp of the Saints. When our
scouts were first driven in Col. Hinkle was out with them, and when they were closely pursued
he turned his coat wrong side out and wore it so.

This was a peculiar move, but at the time it did not cause much comment among his men; but
they reported it to the Prophet, and he at once became suspicious of the Colonel. The Prophet,
being a man of thought and cool reflection, kept this information within a small circle, as
it was a bad time to ventilate an act of that kind.

The Prophet concluded to make use of the knowledge he had gained of Hinkle's character, and
employ him to negotiate between the two parties. I do not believe that Joseph had the least
idea that he, with his little handful of men, could stand off the army that had come up against
him. I know that now, but at the time I was full of religious zeal and felt that the Mormon
Hosts of Israel were invincible. Joseph wished to use Hinkle to learn the designs of the Gentiles,
so that he could prepare for the worst. Col. Hinkle was therefore sent by Joseph to have an
interview with the Gentiles.

The Colonel returned and reported to Joseph the terms proposed by the Gentile officers. The
terms offered were as follows: Joseph and the leading men of the Church, Rigdon, Lyman White,
P. P. Pratt, Phelps, and others, were to give themselves up without delay; the remainder of
the men were to surrender themselves and their arms by ten o'clock the following day, the understanding
being that all would be tried for treason against the Government, and for other offenses.

The Prophet took advantage of this information, and had every man that was in imminent danger
leave the camp for a place of safety. The most of those in peril went to Illinois. They left
at once, and were safe from all pursuit before the surrender took place, as they traveled north
and avoided the settlements.

When the brethren had left for Illinois, as just stated, Joseph called his remaining troops
together and told them they were a good lot of fellows, but they were not perfect enough to
withstand so large an army as the one now before them; that they had stood by him, and were
willing to die for and with him, for the sake of the Kingdom of Heaven; that he wished them
to be comforted, for God had accepted their offering; that he intended to, and was going to
offer himself up as a sacrifice, to save their lives and to save the Church. He wished them
to be of good cheer, and pray for him, and to pray that he and the brethren that went with
him might be delivered from their enemies. He then blessed his people in the name of the Lord.
After that he and the leading men, six in number, went direct to the camp of the enemy.

They were led by a Judas, Col. G. M. Hinkle. I stood upon the breastworks and watched them
go into the camp of the enemy. I heard the yells of triumph of the troops as Joseph and his
companions approached. It was with great difficulty that the officers could restrain the mob
from shooting them down as they entered. A strong guard was then placed over them to protect
them from mob violence.

The next morning a court-martial was held, at which Joseph and his six companions who had surrendered
with him were sentenced to be shot. The execution was to take place at eight o'clock the next
morning. When the sentence of the court-martial was announced to them, Col. Lyman White said:

"Shoot and be damned!"

Gen. Atchison and Col. Doniphan arrived with their divisions the same day, soon after the court-martial
had been held. Col. Doniphan, in particular, remonstrated against the decision. He said it
was nothing more nor less than cold-blooded murder, and that every name signed to the decision
was signed in blood, and he would withdraw his troops and have nothing to do in the matter
if the men were to be shot. Gen. Atchison sustained Col. Doniphan, and said the wiser policy
would be, inasmuch as they had surrendered themselves as prisoners, to place them in the Richmond
jail and let them take the due course of the law; let them be tried by the civil authorities
of the land. In this way justice could be reached and parties punished according to law, and
thus save the honor of the troops and the nation. This timely interposition on the part of
Col. Doniphan and Gen. Atchison changed the course and prevented the hasty action of an infuriated
mob calling itself a court, and composed of men who were the bitter enemies of Joseph and his
followers.

The next day a writing desk was prepared, with two secretaries or clerks; it was placed in
the middle of the hollow square formed by the troops. The Mormons were marched in double file
across the center of the square, where the officers and men who had remained in Far West surrendered
themselves and their arms to Gen. Clark, Commander-in-Chief of the Missouri militia, then in
arms against the Saints at Far West. I was among the number that then surrendered. I laid down
a good Kentucky rifle, two good horse pistols, and a sword.

After stacking our arms we were marched in single file between a double file of the militia,
who stood in a line from the secretary's desk extending nearly across the square, ready to
receive us, with fixed bayonets. As each man came up he stepped to the desk and signed his
name to an instrument recapitulating the conditions of the treaty, which were substantially
as follows: We were to give a deed to all our real estate, and to give a bill of sale of our
personal property, to pay the expenses of the war that had been inaugurated against us; also
a committee of twelve should be appointed, one for Far West and one for Adam- on-Diamond, who
were to be the sole judges of what would be necessary to remove each family out of the State.
All of the Mormons were to leave Missouri by the 1st of April, A. D. 1839. The rest of the
property of the Mormons was to be taken by the Missouri troops to pay the expenses of the war.
When the committee had examined into affairs and made the assignment of property that the Mormons
were to retain, a pass would be given by the committee to each person as an evidence that he
had gone through an investigation both as to his conduct and property. The prisoners at Far
West were to be retained and not allowed to return home until the committee had reported and
given the certificate that all charges had been met and satisfied. I remained a prisoner for
nine days, awaiting the action of the committee.

While such prisoner I witnessed many scenes of inhumanity even more degrading than mere brutality
itself. The mob of the militia was mostly composed of men who had been neighbors of the Mormons.
This mob rifled the city, took what they wished, and committed many cruel and shameful deeds.
These barbarous acts were done because they said the Mormons had stolen their goods and chattels,
and while they pretended to search for stolen property they ravished women and committed other
crimes at will.

One day, while we were standing by a log fire trying to keep warm, a man came up and, recognizing
Brother Riley Stewart, said:

"I saw you knock Dick Weldon down at Gallatin."

With this he sprang and caught at an ax that had been stuck in a log. While trying to get the
ax out, as it stuck fast in the log, Stewart ran. The man succeeded in getting the ax loose;
he then threw it with all his force at Stewart. Fortunately the ax struck him only a glancing
blow on the head, not killing him, but giving him a severe wound.

The night after he was wounded Stewart broke through the guard and escaped to his wife's people
in Carroll County, fifty miles south of Far West. As soon as the citizens heard that Stewart
had arrived they notified his wife's brothers and father that an armed mob intended to take
him out and whip him severely, and then tar and feather him. His friends warned him of the
fact, and he attempted to make his escape, but the mob was on the watch. They caught him, and,
holding two pistols at his head, forced him to take off his coat, kneel down, and receive fifty
lashes. These were given him with such force that they cut through his linen shirt. After this
whipping he returned to Far West and took his chances with the rest of us.

One day a soldier of the mob walked up to a house near where I was standing. The house was
occupied by an old widow woman. The soldier noticed a cow in the little shed near the house.
He said that he thought it was a Danite cow; that he wanted to have the honor of killing a
Danite, or something that belonged to a Danite. The old widow came to the door of her cabin
and begged him to spare her cow, saying it was her only dependence for milk, that she had no
meat, and if her cow was killed she must suffer.

"Well, then," said he, "you can eat the cow for a change."

He then shot the cow dead, and stood there and tantalized the old woman while she cried over
her loss.

While we were standing in line, waiting our turn to sign the treaty, a large company of men,
painted like Indians, rode up and surrounded us. They were a part of the men who were in the
fight at the town of Gallatin on the day of election. They abused us in every way they could
with words. This treatment was hard to bear, but we were powerless to protect ourselves in any way.

CHAPTER VI - LEE LOCATES THE GARDEN OF EDEN

Among other matters I had a fine gray mare that attracted the attention of many of the mob.
I was allowed to take her to water while closely guarded by armed men. One day as I took her
to water I was spoken to by several, who said they were sorry for a man like me, who appeared
to be honest and peaceably disposed; that they knew that I and many honest men were deluded
by Joseph Smith, the impostor. But they thanked God he would delude no more people; that he
would certainly be shot; that I had better quit my delusion and settle down by the officer
in command, who was then talking to me, in Carroll County, and make a home for my family; that
I would never have peace or quiet while I remained with the Mormons. I heard him through. Then
I said:

"No man has deceived me. I am not deceived by Joseph Smith, or any other man. If I am deceived
it is the Bible that has deceived me. I believe that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, and
I have the Bible as my authority in part for this belief. And I do not believe that Joseph
Smith will be shot, as you seem to think. He has not finished his work yet."

As I finished my remarks the officer became enraged, and said:

"That is the way with all you Mormons. You might as well try to move a mountain as to turn
a Mormon from his delusion. Blow the brains out of this fool!"

In an instant several guns were leveled on me. I imagined I felt the bullets piercing my body.

The soldiers would certainly have shot me down if the officer had not immediately countermanded
his order, by saying:

"Hold on, boys, he is not worth five charges of ammunition."

"Gentlemen," I said, "I am your prisoner, unarmed and helpless, and I demand your protection.
But if you consider there is any honor in treating a man and an American prisoner in this way,
you may do it."

As we returned to camp the man said:

"We will make it hot for the Mormons yet before we are done with them, and if you have not
got enough of them now, you will have, and you will remember my words when it is too late to
serve you."

"I may," said I; "when I do I will own up like a little man. But until I am so convinced I
will never turn my coat."

"Well," said he, "you are not so bad, after all. I like a firm man."

The Mormons were locked in the public schoolhouses and kept without rations being issued to
them. The grain fields and gardens that belonged to the Mormons were thrown open to the stock
and wasted. Our cattle and other stock were shot down for sport and left for the wolves and
birds of prey to devour. We were closely guarded, and not allowed to go from our quarters without
an escort. We were nearly starved for several days, until I obtained permission to go out and
bring in some of the cattle that the soldiers had killed for sport. The weather was cold and
the snow deep, so the meat was good. I also got permission to gather in some vegetables, and
from that time, while we remained prisoners, the men had plenty to eat, yet often it was of
a poor quality. While a prisoner I learned that the loud and self- conceited men were of little
account when danger stared them in the face.

Arrangements had been made to carry the treaty into effect. It was found necessary to send
Gen. Wilson with five hundred men to Adam-on-Diamond to compel the surrender and the signing
of the treaty, as had been done at Far West, and the people of that place were to be treated
just as we had been. I was recommended to Gen. Wilson by the officer who had ordered his men
to blow my brains out, as a suitable man for a guide to Adam-on-Diamond. He said that I was
as stubborn as a mule, but still there was something about me he respected; that he believed
I was honest, and certainly no coward. Gen. Wilson said:

"Young man, do you live at Adam-on-Diamond?"

"I cannot say that I do; but I did once, and I have a wife and child there that I would like
to see; but as to a home, I have none left."

"Where did you live before you came here?"

"In Illinois," I answered.

"You will soon see your wife and child. I shall start in the morning with my division for Adam-on-Diamond.
You are at liberty to select two of your comrades and go with me as guide to pilot us there.
Be ready for an early start and report to my adjutant."

"Thank you, sir, I will do as you request," said I.

The next morning I selected two good men. Brother Levi Stewart was one, but I have forgotten
who the other man was. The day was cold and stormy, a hard north wind blowing, and the snow
falling rapidly. It was an open country for thirteen miles, with eighteen inches of snow on
the ground. We kept our horses to the lope until we reached Shady Grove timber, thirteen miles
from Far West. There we camped for the night by the side of Brother Waldo Littlefield's farm.
The fence was burned for camp-fires, and his fields of grain were fed to the horses, or rather
the animals were turned loose in the fields. After camp was struck I went to Gen. Wilson and said:

"General, I have come to beg a favor of you. I ask you in the name of humanity to let me go
on to Adam-on-Diamond to-day. I have a wife and helpless babe there. I am informed that our
house was burned, and she is out in this storm without shelter. You are halfway there; the
snow is deep, and you can follow our trail" - it had then slackened up, or was snowing but
little - "in the morning; there is but one road to the settlement."

He looked at me for a moment, and then said:

"Young man, your request shall be granted; I admire your resolution." He then turned to his
aid, who stood trembling in the snow, and said, "Write Mr. Lee and his two comrades a pass,
saying that they have gone through an examination at Far West, and were found innocent."

After receiving my pass I thanked the General for his humane act, and with my friends made
the journey, through the snow, to Adam- on-Diamond. As we neared home the sun shone out brightly.
When I got in sight of where my house had been I saw my wife sitting by a log fire in the open
air, with her babe in her arms. Some soldiers had cut a large hickory tree for firewood for
her, and built her a shelter with some boards I had had dressed to weather-board a house, so
she was in a measure comfortable. She had been weeping, as she had been informed that I was
a prisoner at Far West, and would be shot, and that she need not look for me, for she would
never see me again.

When I rode up she was nearly frantic with delight, and as soon as I reached her side she threw
herself into my arms and then her self-possession gave way and she wept bitterly; but she soon
recovered herself and gave me an account of her troubles during my absence.

The next evening Gen. Wilson and his command arrived and camped near my little shanty. I started
at once to report to Gen. Wilson. On my way to him I passed my friend McBrier, who had trusted
me for some cattle. I still owed him for them. I told him why I had been unable to pay him,
and wished him to take the cattle back, as I still had all of them except one cow that had
died of the murrain; that it was an honest debt, and I wished to pay it. I asked him to go
to my shanty with me, and said he could take what cattle were left and a black mare that was
worth seventy-five dollars, and an eight-day clock that was worth twenty-five dollars, for my note.

"I have not got your note," said he.

"Who has it?" I asked.

"I do not know; I supposed you had it."

"I never saw it since I gave it to you."

"Well," said he, "my house was burned, and all my property either burned or taken from me,
and your note was in the house when it was burned."

"Well," said I, "it matters not with me. If you will take the property and give me a' receipt
against the note, so that it cannot be collected the second time, I will settle the debt."
He then said:

"I thought you were in the party that burned the house, and had taken your note, but I am now
satisfied to the contrary, and that you are an innocent man. All I ask is for you to renew
the note. The property of the Mormons will be held to pay their debts and the expenses of the
war, and I will get my pay in that way. You just renew the note, and that will settle all between
us."

McBrier introduced me to a number of the soldiers as an honest Mormon. This worked well in
my favor, and pleased me much, for it satisfied me more than ever that honesty was the best
policy. I had done nothing that I considered wrong. I did not have to run and hide, or screen
any act of mine from the public gaze.

My wife had been treated well personally during my absence; no insults had been offered to
her, and I was well pleased with that. I was treated with respect by Gen. Wilson and his men.
True, I was associated with the people that had incurred the displeasure of the authorities,
and my neighbors were then receiving fearful punishment for all they had done. The punishment,
however, was in a great part owing to the fault of the people. When the Gentiles found any
of their property they became very abusive. By the terms of the treaty all the Mormons were
to leave Daviess County within fifteen days, but they were allowed to stay through the winter
in Caldwell County; but all had to depart from Missouri before the first day of the next April.
There were but a few families that met with the kind treatment that mine did. The majority
of the people were censured and persecuted as much as they were able to stand and live.

In justice to the Prophet Joseph I cannot say that I ever heard him teach or even encourage
men to steal little things. He told the people to wait until the proper time came to take their
rights.

"Then," said he, "take the whole State of Missouri like men."

When the people at Adam-on-Diamond had signed the treaty and complied with the stipulations,
the committee of twelve commenced their duties. When it came my turn to receive the property
necessary to take me out of the State I was told to fit myself out comfortably. I told them
that I had a wife and one child; that I had two good wagons, one a heavy one-horse wagon, with
thills, and that I had a large mare which was equal to a common span; that the mare and wagon
would do me. I wanted some bedding and our clothing, and some other traps of little value.
I had a good milk cow that I wished to give to a friend who had lost all his cattle. His wife
had died a short time before, leaving a little babe that must have milk. I told them they could
take the rest of my property and do with it as they did with that of the brethren. I was worth
then in property, at a fair valuation, four thousand dollars.

The officers were astonished at me, and said they did not, wish to oppress a man who acted
fairly. They told me to take my large wagon and two of my best horses, and all the outfit that
I wanted. I thanked them for their kindness. I was permitted to give the cow to my friend,
and I had the privilege of taking such articles as I wished. I fitted up with just what would
take me to Illinois, and left the remainder as a spoil for the enemies of the Church. I did
not regret the loss of my property; I gave it up as the price of my religious freedom.

Before I speak of other things I will say a few words of the country we were then in. Adam-on-Diamond
was at the point where Adam came and settled and blest his posterity after being driven from
the Garden of Eden. This was revealed to the people through Joseph the Prophet. The Temple
Block in Jackson County, Missouri, stands on the identical spot where once stood the Garden
of Eden. When Adam and Eve were driven from the Garden they traveled in a northwesterly course
until they came to a valley on the east side of Grand River. There they tarried for several
years, and engaged in tilling the soil. On the east of the valley there is a low range of hills.
Standing on the summit of the bluffs a person has a full view of the beautiful valley that
lies below, dotted here and there with groves of timber. On the top of this range of hills
Adam erected an altar of stone, on which he offered sacrifice unto the Lord. There was in our
time (1838) a pile of stone there, which the Prophet said was a portion of the altar on which
Adam offered sacrifice. Although these stones had been exposed to the elements for many generations,
still the traces remained to show the dimensions and design of the altar. After Adam had offered
his sacrifice he went up the valley some two miles, where he blessed his posterity and called
the place the Valley of Adam-on-Diamond, which, in the reformed Egyptian language, signifies
Adam's Consecrated Land. It is said to be seventy-five miles, in a direct course, from the
Garden of Eden to Adam-on-Diamond. Those ancient relics and sacred spots of earth are held
holy by the greater portion of the Latter-day Saints. These things, and much more concerning
the early days, were revealed to the Prophet Joseph.

On the 20th day of November, 1838, I took leave of my home and the sacred ground of Adam-on-Diamond
and started as a banished man to seek a home in Illinois. We went to my farm on Shady Grove
Creek, and stayed over night. We found everything as we had left it, nothing having been interfered
with. I killed a large hog and dressed it to carry with us to cat on the journey. The snow
was fully twenty inches deep, weather very cold, and, taken all in all, it was a disagreeable
and unpleasant trip.

We went to the settlement on Log Creek and stopped with the family of Robert Bidwell. He had
plenty of property. This man had good teams, and had reaped where he had not sown, gathered
where he had not strewn. He was engaged in removing families of his helpless brethren to Quincy,
Illinois, who had not teams to move themselves, but who had a little money that he was after,
and he got all they had. For some reason unexplained to me he had been permitted to keep all
of his property; none of it was taken by the troops.

While at Bidwell's I bought a crib of corn, about two hundred bushels, for a pocketknife. I
built a stable for my mare, a crib for the com, and hauled wood enough to do the family the
rest of the winter. I also attended to Bidwell's stock and worked all the time for him. They
had five children, which made considerable work for the women folks; my wife worked for them
all the time.

During this time we had nothing but corn to eat. The hog I killed at my farm was diseased,
and I had to throw the meat away. Notwithstanding our constant work for Bidwell's family, they
never gave us a drop of milk or a meal of victuals while we remained there. Mrs. Bidwell fed
six gallons of milk to their hogs each day. I offered to feed the hogs corn for milk, so we
could have milk to eat with our boiled corn, but she refused the offer, saying they had all
the corn they needed. They did have provisions of every kind in abundance, but not a particle
of food could we obtain from them.

Prayer meetings were frequently held at their house. They had plenty of tallow, but Mrs. Bidwell
would not allow a candle to be burned in the house unless some other person furnished it. One
night at prayer meeting I chanced to speak upon the subject of covetousness, and quoted the
twelfth chapter of Paul to the Corinthians, where he speaks of members of the Church of Christ
being united. I was feeling bad to see so much of the covetousness of the world in some of
the members of the Church, and I talked plainly upon the subject.

The next morning Mrs. Bidwell came into our room and said that my remarks at the meeting the
evening before were directed at her, and she wanted me to understand that if I did not like
my treatment there she desired us to go where we would fare better. This inhuman and unwelcome
language did not sit well on an empty stomach, and was more than I could bear. I burst into
tears. Yet I pitied the ungrateful woman. As soon as I could control my feelings I said:

"Sister Bidwell, I will take you at your word. I will leave your house as soon as I can get
my things into my wagon, but before I leave you I wish to say a few words for you to ponder
on when we are gone. In the first place, you and I profess to be members of the same Church;
for the sake of our faith my family has been broken up and driven from a comfortable home in
this inclement season of the year. We came here seeking shelter from the stormy blasts of winter,
until the severity of the weather was past, when we intended to leave this State. You have
been more fortunate than your brethren and sisters who lived in Daviess County. You are allowed
to live in your own house, but we are homeless wanderers. Now you drive us from the shelter
of your roof for a trivial offense, if offense it was. But I assure you that you are only angry
because my words were the truth. Woe unto you who are angry and offended at the truth. As you
do unto others, so will your Heavenly Father do unto you. Inasmuch as you have done this unchristian
act, you will yet be houseless and homeless - you will be one day dependent upon those that
you now drive from your door."

At first she mocked me, but soon her tune changed and she commenced to cry. She then begged
me not to get angry with what a woman said. I told her I could not undo what I had said - that
I should start at once for Quincy, Illinois.

We left the house of that stingy and selfish family, intending to go direct to Illinois. We
traveled until we arrived at the house of a man by the name of Morris; they had a much smaller
house than Bidwell's, but they would not listen to our continuing our journey during the severe
cold weather. We accepted their invitation, and stayed there about two weeks. This family possessed
the true Christian spirit, and treated us while there as kindly as if we had been their own
children.

While staying with Brother Morris I attended several meetings at Far West. Old Father Smith,
the father of the Prophet, led the meetings. He also directed the exodus of the Saints from
Missouri to Illinois.

Thomas B. Marsh was at that time President of the twelve apostles, and I think Brigham Young
was second and Orson Hyde the third on the roll. The great opposition to our people and Church
caused the two pillars, Marsh and Hyde, to become weak-kneed and turn over to the enemy. Col.
G. M. Hinkle, Dr. Averard, Judge W. W. Phelps, and others of the "tall" men of the Church followed
suit. I remember going with Brother Levi Stewart to some of those fallen angels (in the days
of our prosperity they had looked like angels to me) to inquire what to do and what was to
be the future conduct of our people. G. M. Hinkle said that it was his opinion our leaders,
the Prophet Joseph and those with him in prison, would be either hanged or imprisoned for life
- that the members of the Church would scatter to the four winds, and never gather again in
this dispensation.

We then went to Joseph's father and asked him for counsel. He told us that the Saints would
gather again in Illinois. We asked him at what point, and he said:

"I do not know yet, but the further north we go the fewer poisonous serpents we will find."

He then advised us to attend private meetings and be set apart to the ministry. Public meetings
could not be held by the terms of the treaty. We did attend private meetings, and I was ordained
in the Quorum of Seventies, under the hands of Joseph Young and Levi Hancock. Stewart was ordained
to the lesser Priesthood, which gave him authority to preach and baptize, but not to confirm.

The office that I held gave me authority to preach, baptize, and confirm by the laying on of
hands, for the reception of the Holy Ghost, and to ordain and set apart Elders, Priests, Teachers,
and Deacons, and to ordain a Seventy or High Priest, as the office of a Seventy belongs to
the Melchisedek Priesthood; yet a Seventy or High Priest is generally ordained and set apart
by the presidents of the several quorums.

After we were ordained we attended a private feast and blessing meeting, at which my wife and
I got our Patriarchal Blessing, under the hands of Isaac Morley, Patriarch. This office properly
belongs to those that are ordained and set apart to that calling, to bless the fatherless and
the widow especially; but he can bless others who ask it and pay one dollar for the blessing.
Often the widow and the poor are blessed free, but this is at the option of the Patriarch.
My Patriarchal Blessing was in the following form:

"Brother John Doyle Lee: In the name of Jesus of Nazareth, and by virtue and authority of the
Holy Priesthood, in me vested, I lay my hands upon thy head, and confer upon thee a Patriarchal
or Father's Blessing. Thousands shall hear the everlasting gospel proclaimed from thy lips.
Kings and princes shall acknowledge thee to be their father in the new and everlasting covenant.
Thou shalt have a numerous posterity, who shall rise up and bless thee. Thou shalt have houses
and habitations, flocks, fields, and herds. Thy table shall be strewed with the rich luxuries
of the earth, to feed thy numerous family and friends who shall come unto thee. Thou shalt
be a counselor in Israel, and many shall come unto thee for instruction. Thou shalt be a blessing
to thy family and to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Thou shalt understand
the hidden things of the Kingdom of Heaven. The spirit of inspiration shall be a light in thy
path and a guide to thy mind.

To a true believer in the faith of the Latter-day Saints a blessing of this kind, from under
the hand of a Patriarch, was then, and is now, next to a boon of eternal life. A Patriarch
is a man highly favored of God, possesses the gift of discerning spirits, and can read the
present and future destiny of men. Patriarchal blessings strengthen, stimulate and encourage
true Saints to press on to perfection while passing through this world of sorrows, cares and
disappointments.

Having been ordained and blessed, my next step was to arm myself with the Armor of Righteousness,
and in my weakness pray for strength to face a frowning world. I had put my hands to the plow
and I was determined that, with God's help, I would never turn back to the sinful elements
of the world, the flesh, and the devil.

CHAPTER VII - THE SAINTS GATHER AT NAUVOO

About the middle of February, 1839, I started back for Fayette County, Illinois, with my family,
in company with Brother Levi Stewart and Riley Helm, two of my old Illinois neighbors. While
traveling through Missouri we were kindly treated by most of the people; many of them requested
us to stop and settle down by them. I refused to do so, for I knew there was no safety for
a true Saint in that State at that time.

When we crossed the Mississippi River at Quincy, and touched Illinois soil, I felt like a new
man, and a free American citizen again. At this place I found many of the Saints who had preceded
us camped along the river. Some had obtained employment; all appeared happy in the faith and
strong in the determination to build up the Kingdom. Here I parted with Riley Helm, as his
team had given out and he could go no farther. I gave him twenty-five cents in money - all
that I had in the world - and twelve pounds of nails, to buy food with until he could get aid
from some other quarter. I had laid in enough provisions at Brother Morris' to last me until
I could reach my old home again. I started from Quincy by way of Mr. Vanleven's, the man I
sold my cattle to, taking his note, when going to join the Saints.

Without meeting with any remarkable adventures, I arrived at Mr. Vanleven's house and was kindly
received by him. He had the money ready for me, and paid me in full all he owed on the cattle.
I now saw that some honesty yet remained in the world. I took two hundred dollars and left
the rest of it with my friend and banker, so that it would be safe in case I met another storm
of oppression. I then went to Vandalia, Illinois, and put up with my wife's sister's husband,
Hickerson. He was in good circumstances. I left my wife with her sister, after laying in a
supply of provisions for her and our child. I then commenced preparing for a mission. I did
not know where I was to go, but I felt it my duty to go forth and give my testimony to the
truth of the gospel as revealed by Joseph, the prophet of the everlasting God. Brother Stewart
was to go with me, he having made arrangements for the comfort of his family during his absence.

The time I started on my first mission was about the 1st of April, 1839. I had never attempted
to preach a discourse in my life. I expected trials, and I had them to undergo many times.

Brother Stewart and myself started forth on foot, with our valises on our backs. We walked
about thirty miles the first day, and as night was approaching we called at a house for lodging.
They had been having a log rolling there that day, and quite a number of people were around
the house. We asked for lodging and refreshments.

Our request was carried back to the supper-room to the man of the house, and we stood at the
gate awaiting the reply. Presently the man came out and said that no Mormon preacher could
stay in his house; and if we wished to save our scalps we had better be making tracks lively.

Brother Stewart took him at his word, and started off at a double quick. I followed, but more
slowly. We made no reply to that man's remarks. A mile further on we again called for lodging.

The man could not keep us, as he was poor, and his family sick; but he directed us to a house
half a mile from the traveled road, where he said a man lived that was an infidel, but would
not turn a hungry man from his door.

We went to the house and asked for entertainment. The man said he never turned a man from his
door hungry, but would as soon entertain horse thieves as Mormon preachers; that he looked
upon all Mormons as thieves, robbers, and scoundrels. There was determination in his voice
as he addressed us in this manner. He held his rifle in his hand while speaking. Then he said:

"Walk in, gentlemen. I never turn the hungry away." He addressed his wife, a very pretty, unassuming
lady, and said, "Get these men some supper, for I suppose they feel pretty lank."

There was a good supper soon on the table; but I could not eat. Brother Stewart ate his supper,
and soon was enjoying himself talking to the family. He was a great talker; liked to hear himself
talk. They requested me to eat, but I thanked them, and said rest would do me more good than
eating. I soon retired, but did not sleep. I was humiliated; my proud spirit was broken and
humbled; the rough words used toward me bad stricken me to the heart. At daylight we were on
our way again.

About ten o'clock we arrived at a little town, and went to the public pump to get a drink.
While there a woman came to the pump and asked us if we were Mormon preachers. We told her
we were, but had never preached yet. She invited us to her house, saying she owned the hotel;
that she was a widow; that she would inform the people of the town we were there, and as it
was the Sabbath we could preach in her house, for she wished to hear the strange doctrine.
We consented to remain, and went home with her and had something to eat.

At 11 o'clock, a. m., I made my debut to quite an attentive audience. I both quoted and made
Scripture. I had been fasting and praying until I had become as humble as a child. My whole
mind and soul were swallowed up in the gospel. My most earnest desire was to impart to others
the knowledge that I had of the truths of the gospel.

When I began to speak I felt an electric thrill through my whole system. I hardly knew what
I said, but the people said I spoke from inspiration; none of the audience noticed my mistakes
in quoting Scripture.

After dinner my companion, Stewart, proposed to travel on, and, I agreeing with him, we left
the town, although the people wished us to stay and preach again. I had but little confidence
in myself, and concluded to preach but seldom, until I got over my timidity or man-fearing
feeling that most beginners are subject to. But I have now been a public speaker for thirty-five
years, and I have not yet entirely gotten over that feeling.

We started for Cincinnati, and traveled two days and a half without food. My boots hurt my
feet and our progress was quite slow. The third night we applied to a tavern keeper for lodging
and food. He said we were welcome to stay in his house free, but he must have pay for what we eat.

We sat in the hall all night, for we were much reduced by hunger and fatigue. That was a miserable
night indeed. I reflected the matter over and over again, scrutinized it up one side and down
the other. I could not see why a servant of God should receive such treatment - that if I was
in the right faith, doing the will of God, He would open up the way before me, and not allow
me to perish under the sore trials then surrounding me. I had seriously considered the propriety
of walking back to where the kind landlady gave us our last meal, but was soon comforted, for
these words came into my mind:

"He that putteth his hands to the plow, and then looketh back, is not fit for the Kingdom of
Heaven;" "If ye were of the world, then the world would love its own, but because I have chosen
you out of the world, the world persecuteth you;"

The Son of God Himself, when He entered upon the duties of His mission, was led into the wilderness,
where He was tempted forty days and nights, and when He was hungry and asked for bread He was
told, substantially, that if His mission was of God that God would feed Him, that if hungry
He could turn the stones to bread and eat. I remembered that similar sayings had been thrown
into our teeth. These thoughts passed through my frame like electricity - or to use the language
of one of the old prophets, it was like fire shut up in my bones; I felt renewed and refreshed
from head to foot, and determined to trust in the Arm that could not be broken; to conquer
and subdue the passions of my nature, and by the help of God to try and bring them in subjection
to the will of the Spirit, and not of the flesh, which is carnal, sensual, and devilish. I
determined that there should be no lack on my part.

Daylight came at last, and we renewed our journey. I put a double guard over those evil passions
that were sown thickly in my sinful nature. The passion most dreaded by me was the lust of
the flesh; that I knew to be the worst enemy to my salvation, and I determined to master it,
I have walked along in silence for hours, with my heart lifted up to God in prayer, pleading
with Him to give me power over my passions and sinful desires, that I might conquer and drive
from my mind those besetting sins that were continually warring with the Spirit, which, if
cherished or suffered to remain, would wound and grieve the Spirit and drive it away. It is
written, "My Spirit will not dwell in an unholy temple." Jesus said to His followers that their
bodies were the temples of the Living God; that if they who had charge of those temples, or
bodies, allowed them to become unholy, He would destroy that body; while to those who guarded
their temples, and kept them pure and holy, He and His Father would come and take up their
abode and dwell with them as a constant companion forever, even unto the end, guiding them
in all truth and showing them things past, present, and to come. From day to day I kept my
mind in a constant strain upon this subject. Notwithstanding, the tempter was ever on the alert,
and contested every inch of ground with me.

Often, while I was in the most solemn reflections, the tempter would place before me some lovely
female, possessing all the allurements of her sex, to draw my mind from the contemplation of
holy things. For a moment humanity would claim the victory; but quick as thought I would banish
the vision from my mind and plead with God for strength and power to resist the temptations
that were besetting me and enable me to cast aside the love of sinful pleasures. The words
of the Apostle Paul were appropriate for me at that and in future time, when he declared that
he died daily to crucify the deeds of the flesh. So it was with me. I was convinced that I
could not serve two masters, God and Mammon. When I tried to please the one I was certain to
displease the other. I found that I must give myself up wholly to God and His ministry and
conduct myself as a man of God, if I would be worthy of the name of a messenger of salvation.
I must have the Spirit of God accompany my words and carry conviction to the honest in heart.
In this way I grew in grace from day to day, and I have never seen the hour that I regretted
taking up my cross and giving up all other things to follow and obey Christ, my Redeemer and
Friend. I do most sincerely regret that I ever suffered myself to be captivated by the wiles
of the devil, contrary to my better judgment.

Brigham teaches that the will and acts of the people must all be dictated by him, and delights
in hearing the apostles and elders declare to the people that he, Brigham, is God. He claims
that the people are answerable to him as to their God, that they must obey his every beck and
call. It matters not what he commands or requests the people to do, it is their duty to hear
and obey. To disobey the will of Brigham is a sin against the Holy Ghost, and an unpardonable
sin to be wiped out only by blood atonement. I must now resume my narrative, but I will hereafter
speak of Brigham more at length.

We left the Fasting Hotel, as I called it, and traveled to Hamilton, Ohio, then a neat little
town. As we arrived in the center of the town I felt impressed to call at a restaurant, kept
by a foreigner. It was then noon. This was the first house we had called at since morning.

As we entered the proprietor requested us to unstrap our valises and sit down and rest, saying
we looked very tired. He asked where we were from, and where we were going. We answered all
his questions. He then offered us refreshments; we informed him that we had no money, and had
eaten nothing for three days. He said it made no difference to him; that if we had no money
we were more welcome than if we had plenty of it. We ate a hearty meal, and he gave us a drink
of cider. He then filled our knapsacks with buns, cheese, sausages, and other things, after
which he bid us godspeed.

We traveled on with hearts full of gratitude to God, the bountiful Giver Who had opened the
heart of the stranger that had just supplied our wants, and we felt grateful to and blessed
the man for his generous actions. While passing through Cincinnati we were offered refreshments
by a lady that kept an inn. We crossed the Ohio River at Cincinnati, and stopped over night
at a hotel on the Kentucky side of the river. We then traveled through Kentucky and into Overton
and Jackson counties, Tennessee. I now bear testimony, though many years have passed since
then, that from the moment I renewed my covenant to deny myself to all unrighteousness and
live the life of a man devoted to God's work on earth, I have never felt that I was alone,
or without a Friend powerful to aid, direct, and shield me at all times and during all troubles.

While in Tennessee I stopped with my friend Levi Stewart at the houses of his relatives in
Overton and Jackson counties, and preached several times. My friend Stewart was blessed with
a large bump of self-esteem. He imagined that he could convert all of his relatives at once;
that all he had to do was to present the gospel, and they would gladly embrace it. He appeared
to forget that a prophet was not without honor, save in his own country and among his own kinfolk.

Brother Stewart, though I was his superior in the Priesthood, if not in experience and ability,
looked upon me as a cipher, fit for nothing. The rough treatment and slights that I received
from him were more than humiliating to a man of fine feelings and a spirit such as I possessed.
I said nothing to him, but I poured out my soul in secret prayer to my Heavenly Father, asking
Him to open the door for my deliverance, so that my proud spirit, which was bound down, might
soar in a free element.

One Sunday we attended a Baptist meeting. We sat facing the preacher, but at the far side of
the house. My mind was absorbed in meditating upon my future labors. Gradually I lost consciousness
of my surroundings, and my whole being seemed in another locality. I was in a trance, and saw
future events. What I then saw was to me a reality, and I will describe it as such. I traveled
in a strange land and among a people that I had never seen. I was kindly received by the people,
and all my wants were supplied without my having to ask for charity. I traveled on, going over
a mountainous country. I crossed a clear, handsome river, and was kindly received by the family
of the owner of the ferry at that river. I stayed with this family for some days. I then recrossed
the river and called at a house, where I asked for a drink of water, which was given me. I
held quite a conversation with two young women. They informed me that there was no minister
in the neighborhood; also that their father had gone in pursuit of a Mormon preacher who had
passed that way a few days before. A few days passed, and I saw myself in the midst of a congregation,
to whom I was preaching. I also baptized a large number and organized a flourishing branch
of the Church, and was in charge of that people. I was very popular with, and almost worshiped
by, my congregation. I saw all this, and much more, when my vision closed. My mind gradually
changed back, and I found myself sitting in the meetinghouse, where I had been just forty minutes
before.

This was an open-day vision, in which the curtains of heaven were raised and held aside from
futurity to allow me to look into the things which were to come. A feeling of heavenly rapture
filled my being, so much so that, like the apostle who was caught up into the third heaven,
I did not know whether I was in the body or out of it during my vision. I saw things that it
would be unlawful for men to utter. While the vision lasted my soul was lighted up as if illuminated
with the candle of God. When the vision closed the hallowed influence gradually withdrew, yet
leaving sufficient of its glorious effect upon my soul to justify me in feeling and knowing
that I was then chosen of God as a servant in His earthly kingdom; and I was also made to know,
by my sensations, that my vision was real, and would soon be verified in every particular.

At the close of the church services we returned to our lodgings. Brother Stewart asked me if
I was sick. I said:

"No, I am not sick, but I feel serious; yet I am comfortable."

That evening, after I had given some time to secret prayer, I retired to rest. Very soon afterwards
the vision returned, though somewhat varied. I was in the midst of a strange people, to whom
I was propounding the gospel. They received it with honest hearts, and looked upon me as a
messenger of salvation. I visited from house to house, surrounded by friends and kindred spirits
with whom I had once been familiar in another state of existence. I was in the spirit, and
communing with the host of spirits that surrounded me; they encouraged me to return to the
body and continue to act the part that my Master had assigned me. No person, except those who
have entered by pureness of heart into constant communion with God, can ever enter into the
joyous host with whom I then, and in after life, held intercourse.

When I came to myself in the morning I determined to travel until the end of time to find the
people and country that God had shown me in my vision; and I made my arrangements to start
forth again, knowing that God now went with me. I started off after having a talk with Brother
Stewart. He tried to dissuade me from going, saying I had little experience, not sufficient
to warrant my traveling alone; that we had better remain together where we were for a season,
for we had a home there, and could study and inform ourselves more thoroughly before starting
out among strangers. I told him that in and of my own strength I was but a weak vessel; but
my trust was in God, and unless He would bless my labors I could not accomplish much. That
I was God's servant, engaged in His work, therefore I looked to Him for strength and grace
sufficient to sustain me in my day of trial. That I trusted in the arm of God alone, and not
in one of flesh. I started off in a southwesterly course, over the Cumberland Mountains, and
went about seventy miles through a heavily timbered country. I found many species of wild fruit
in abundance along the way.

Springs of pure, cold water were quite common. I passed many little farms and orchards of cultivated
fruit, such as cherries, peaches, pears, and apples. As I proceeded the country became familiar
to me, so much so that I soon knew I was on the very ground I had seen in my vision in the
Baptist church. I saw the place where I had held my first meeting, and my joy was great to
behold with my eyes what I had seen through a glass darkly. I turned aside from the road, and
beneath the spreading branches of the forest trees I lifted my heart with gratitude to God
for what He had done for me. I then went to the house where I had seen the multitude assembled
when I was preaching.

There I saw the two young women that I had beheld in my vision. They appeared to me as though
I had known them from infancy, they so perfectly accorded with those whom I had seen while
God permitted me to peer into futurity. Yes, I saw the women, but their father was gone from
home. I asked for a drink of water, and it was handed to me, as I had seen it done in my vision.
I asked them if there had ever been any Mormon preachers in that country. They said there had
not been any there. The young women were modest and genteel in behavior. I passed on to the
Cumberland River, was set over the river by the ferryman, and lodged in his house.

So far all was as God had shown me; but I was still at the outer edge of my familiar scenery.
I stayed about a week with the ferryman. His name was Vanleven, a relative of my friend and
banker in Illinois. I made myself useful while there. I attended the ferry and did such work
as I could see needed attending to. I also read and preached Mormon doctrines to the family.

On the fifth day after reaching the ferry I saw five men approaching. I instantly recognized
one of them as the man I had seen in my vision - the man that took me to his house to preach.
My heart leaped for joy, for God had sent him in answer to the prayers I had offered up, asking
that the man should be sent for me. I crossed the men over and back again, and although I talked
considerably to the man about what was uppermost in my mind, he said nothing about my going
home with him. I was much disappointed. I retired for secret prayer, and asked God, in the
name of His Son, Jesus Christ, to aid me, and to send the man whom I had seen in my vision
back for me. Before I left my knees I had evidence that my prayer was answered.

The next morning at daylight I informed my friends that I must depart in search of my field
of labor. They asked me to stay until breakfast, but I refused. One of the negroes put me over
the river, and directed me how to cross the mountains on the trail that was much shorter than
the wagon road. I stopped in a little cove and ate a number of fine, ripe cherries. I then
went on until I reached what to me was enchanted ground. I met the two sisters at the gate,
and asked them if their father was at home.

"No, he is not at home," said the ladies, "he has gone to the ferry to find a Mormon preacher,
and see if he can get him to come here and preach in this neighborhood."

They then said I must have met him on the road. I told them that I had come over the mountain
trail, and said I was probably the man he had gone for. They replied:

"Our father said that if you came this way, to have you stop and stay here until his return,
and to tell you that you are welcome to preach at our house at any time."

This was on Friday. I took out my pencil and wrote a notice that I would preach at that place
on the following Sunday, at 10 o'clock, a. m. I handed it to the girls. They agreed to have
the appointment circulated. I passed on and preached at a place twelve miles from there, and
returned in time for my appointment.

When I arrived within sight of the place of meeting I was filled with doubt and anxiety. I
trembled all over, for I saw that a vast concourse of people had come to hear an inexperienced
man preach the gospel. I went into the grove and again prayed for strength and assistance from
my Father in Heaven, to enable me to speak His truth aright. I felt strengthened and comforted.
As I arose from prayer these words came into my mind:

"Truth is mighty and will prevail."

Thereafter I waited until the hour arrived for preaching; then I approached the place where
I had once been in a vision.

This meeting place was in a valley, near a cold, pure spring; on either side was a high, elevated
country; in the center of this valley there stood a large blacksmith and wagon shop, surrounded
with a bower of brushwood to protect the audience from the sun. This bower, in which I was
to preach, would seat one thousand people.

In the center of the bower they had erected a framework or raised platform for a pulpit. I
took my place and preached for one hour and a half. My tongue was like the pen of a ready writer.
I scarcely knew what I was saying. I then opened the doors of the Church for the admission
of members. Five persons joined the Church, and I appointed another meeting for that night.
I again preached, when two more joined the Church.

The next day I baptized the seven new members. I then arranged to hold meetings at that place
three times a week. I visited around the country, seeking to convert sinners. The first converts
were leading people in that county.

Elisha Sanders and his wife and daughter were the first to receive the gospel. Sanders was
a farmer; he had a large flour mill, owned a woodyard, and was engaged in boat building on
the Cumberland River. Caroline C. Sanders had volunteered to publish the appointment of my
first meeting, which I left with the daughters of Mr. Smith. I labored at this place two months,
and baptized twenty-eight persons, mostly the heads of families. I then organized them into
a branch of the Church.

Brother Sanders fitted up a room very handsomely for me, in which I could retire for study,
rest, and secret prayer. I was made to feel at home there, and knew that God had answered my
prayers. I had the knowledge that God's Spirit accompanied my words, carrying conviction to
the hearts of sinful hearers, and giving me souls as seals to my ministry.

Brother Stewart soon preached himself out in his relatives' neighborhood. He heard of my success,
and came to me. He said that the people where he had been preaching were an unbelieving set.
I introduced him to the members of my congregation, and had him preach with me a few times,
which gratified him very much.

One Sunday we were to administer the ordinance of baptism. Several candidates were in attendance.
Brother Stewart was quite anxious to baptize the people. I was willing to humor him. So I said:

"My friends, Brother Stewart, a priest of the New Dispensation, will administer the ordinance
of baptism."

The people stood still; none would come forward for him to baptize them. They said they would
not be baptized until I would baptize them myself. I told them I would act if they desired
it. So I baptized the people, and Brother Stewart was much offended with them. He had not yet
learned that he that exalteth himself shall be cast down, and he that humbleth himself shall
be exalted. I then called on the people for a contribution, to get some clothing for Brother
Stewart. I had concluded to have him return home, and wished to reclothe him before he started,
for he was then in need of it. The contribution was more liberal than I expected.

After Brother Stewart departed I stayed there some three weeks. Then I made up my mind to go
home and visit my family. Brother Sanders invited me to go to Gainsborough with him, whore
he presented me with a nice supply of clothing. Sister Sanders presented me with a fine horse,
saddle, and bridle, and twelve dollars in money. The congregation gave me fifty dollars, and
I had from them an outfit worth over three hundred dollars. I at first refused to accept the
horse, but Sister Sanders appeared so grieved at this that I finally took it. I left my congregation
in charge of Elder Julien Moses, and started for my family about the 1st of October, 1839.
I promised to call on my flock the next spring, or send a suitable minister to wait upon them.

When I reached Vandalia I found my family well. God had raised up friends for them in my absence.
The Saints were then gathering at Commerce, that is to say Nauvoo, Hancock County, Illinois.
I visited my sister's family that fall; they then lived about one hundred miles north of Vandalia.
I preached often through Central Illinois, and that fall I baptized all of my wife's family,
except her father. He held out and refused the gospel until he was on his deathbed; then he
demanded baptism, but being in a country place he died ere an elder could be procured to baptize
him. By the rules of our Church a person can be baptized for the dead, and later he was saved
to eternal life by the baptism of one of his children for the salvation of his soul.

CHAPTER VIII - LEE AS A MISSIONARY

Shortly after my return to Illinois I built a house for my family. During the winter I entered
into a trading and trafficking business with G. W. Hickerson. We would go over the country
and buy up chickens, butter, feathers, beeswax, and coon skins, and haul them to St. Louis,
and carry back calicoes and other goods in payment for the articles first purchased. We made
some money that way.

While carrying on this trade I drew the remainder of my money from my friend, Vanleven, and
began my preparations for joining the Saints. About the middle of April, 1840, I succeeded
in securing a good outfit, and with my old friend Stewart again joined the Saints at Nauvoo.
I felt it to be God's will that I must obey the orders of the Prophet, hence my return to the
society of the brethren.

Joseph and his two counselors, his brother Hyrum and Sidney Rigdon had been released from jail
in Richmond, Missouri, and were again at the head of the Church and directing the energies
of the brethren. It was the policy of Joseph to hold the city lots in Nauvoo at a high price,
so as to draw money from the rich, but not so high as to prevent the poor from obtaining homes.
The poor who lost all their property in following the Church were presented with a lot free
in the center of the city. The Prophet told them not to sell their lots for less than eight
hundred to one thousand dollars, but to sell for that when offered; then they could take a
cheaper lot in the outskirts of the city and have money left to fix up comfortably.

All classes, Jews and Gentiles, were allowed to settle there, one man's money being as good
as another's. No restrictions were placed on the people; they had the right to trade with anyone
that suited them. All classes attended meetings, dances, theaters, and other gatherings, and
were permitted to eat and drink together. The outsiders were invited to join in all of our
amusements. Ball was a favorite sport with the men, and the Prophet frequently took a hand
in the game. He appeared to treat all men alike, and never condemned a man until he had given
him a fair trial to show what was in him.

Among the first things was the laying of the foundation of the Temple. When this was done each
man was required to do one day's work in every ten days, in quarrying rock or doing other work
for the structure. A company was sent up the Mississippi River to the Pineries to get out lumber
for the Temple and other public buildings. The money for city lots went into the Church treasury
to purchase materials for the Temple which could not be supplied by the Saints' own labor.

At the conference in April, 1840, the Prophet delivered a lengthy address upon the history
and condition of the Saints. He reminded the brethren that all had suffered alike for the sake
of the gospel. The rich and the poor had been brought to a common level by persecution; many
of the brethren owed debts that they had been forced to contract in order to get out of Missouri
alive. He considered it unchristianlike for the brethren to demand the payment of such debts;
he did not wish to screen anyone from the just payment of his debts, but he did think that
it would be for the glory of the Kingdom if the people, of their own will, freely forgave each
other all their existing indebtedness, one to the other, renew their covenants with Almighty
God and with each other, refrain from evil, and live their religion. By this means God's Holy
Spirit would support and bless the people.

The people were then asked if they were in favor of thus bringing about the year of jubilee.
All that felt so inclined were asked to make it known by raising their hands; every hand in
the audience was raised. The Prophet declared all debts of the Saints, to and from each other,
forgiven and wiped out. He then gave the following words of advice to the people:

"I wish you all to know that because you were justified in taking property from your enemies,
while engaged in war in Missouri, which was needed to support you, there is now a different
condition of things. I ask all the brethren to renew their covenants, and start anew to live
their religion. If you will do this, I will forgive you your past sins."

The vote was taken on this proposition, and resulted in the unanimous decision of the people
to act as requested by the Prophet. He then continued, saying that he never professed to be
a perfect man.

"I have my failings and passions to contend with the same as has the greatest stranger to God.
I am tempted the same as you are, my brethren. I am not infallible. All men are subject to
temptation, but they are not justified in yielding to their passions and sinful natures. There
is a constant warfare between the two natures of man. This is the warfare of the Saints. It
is written that the Lord would have a tried people - a people that would be tried as gold is
tried by the fire, even seven times tried and purified from the dross of unrighteousness. The
chances of all men for salvation are equal. True, some have greater capacity than others, yet
the chances for improving our minds and subduing our passions by denying ourselves to all unrighteousness
and cultivating the principles of purity are the same; they are within the reach of every man;
all have their free agency; all can lay hold of the promises of eternal life, if they will
only be faithful and comply with God's will and obey the Priesthood in these last days. Never
betray anyone, for God hates a traitor, and so do I. Stand by each other; never desert a friend,
especially in the hour of trouble. Remember that our reward consists in doing good acts, and
not in long prayers like the Scribes and Pharisees of old, who prayed to be seen of men. Never
mind what men think of you, if your hearts are right before God.

To more deeply impress these truths upon the minds of his people the Prophet gave them an account
of the man who fell among thieves and was relieved by the stranger; and he also taught us from
the Scriptures, as well as by the revelations that he had received from God, that it is humane
acts and deeds of kindness, justice and words of truth, that are accounted to man for righteousness;
that prayers, made to be heard by men, and hypocritical groans are displeasing to God.

The Prophet talked to us plainly, and fully instructed us in our duty and gave the long-faced
hypocrites such a lecture that much good was done. I had at that time learned to dread a religious
fanatic, and I was pleased to hear the Prophet lay down the law to them. A fanatic is always
dangerous, but a religious fanatic is to be dreaded by all men - there is no reason in one
of them. I cannot understand how men will blindly follow fanatical teachers. I always demanded
a reason for my belief, and hoped I never would become a victim of fanaticism.

During the summer of 1840 I built a house and such other buildings as I required on my lot
on Warsaw street, and was again able to say I had a home. The brethren were formed into military
companies that year in Nauvoo. Col. A. P. Rockwood was drillmaster. Brother Rockwood was then
a captain, but was afterwards promoted to be colonel of the Host of Israel. I was then fourth
corporal of the company. The people were regularly drilled and taught military tactics, so
that they would be ready to act when the time came for returning to Jackson County, the land
of our inheritance. Most of my wife's relatives came to Nauvoo that year, and settled near
my house.

In 1841 I was sent on a mission through Illinois, Kentucky, and Tennessee. I also visited portions
of Arkansas. I traveled in company, on that mission, with Elder Franklin Edwards. I was then
timid about speaking in towns or cities. I felt that I had not a sufficient experience to justify
me in doing so.

My comrade had less experience than I had, and the worst of it was he would not study to improve
his mind, or permit me to study in quiet. He was negligent, and did not pay sufficient attention
to secret prayer, to obtain that nearness to God that is so necessary for a minister to have
if he expects his works to be blessed with Divine favor. I told him he must do better, or go
home. He promised to do better; also agreed that he would do the begging for food and lodging,
and I might do the preaching. I accepted the offer, and in this way we got along well and pleasantly
for some time.

At the crossing of the Forkadeer River we stayed over night with the ferryman, and were well
entertained. When we left the ferry the old gentleman told us we would be in a settlement of
Methodist people that evening, and they were set in their notions and hated Mormons as badly
as the Church of England hated Methodists, and if we got food or shelter among them he would
be mistaken. He told us to begin to ask for lodging at least an hour before sundown, or we
would not get it.

In the after-part of the day we remembered the advice of the morning and stopped at every house.
The houses were about half a mile apart. We were refused at every house. The night came on
dark and stormy, the rain fell in torrents, while heavy peals of thunder and bright flashes
of lightning were constant, or seemed so to me. The timber was very heavy, making the night
darker than it would otherwise have been. The road was badly cut up from heavy freight teams
passing over it, and the holes were full of water. We fell into many holes of mud and water,
and were well soaked.

About ten o'clock we called at the house of a Methodist class leader, and asked for lodging
and food. He asked who we were. We told him that we were Mormon preachers. As soon as he heard
the name Mormon he became enraged, and said no Mormon could stay in his house. We started on.
Soon afterwards we heard him making efforts to set his dogs on us. The dogs came running and
barking, as a pack of hounds always do.

Brother Edwards was much frightened; but I told him not to be scared, I would protect him.
So when the dogs came near us I commenced to clap my hands and shouted as though the fox was
just ahead of us; this caused the dogs to rush on and leave us in safety. In this way we escaped
injury from the pack of ten or more dogs that the Methodist had put on our trail.

At the next house we were again refused shelter and food. I asked for permission to sit under
the porch until the rain stopped.

"No," said the man, "if you were not Mormons I would gladly entertain you, but as you are Mormons
I dare not permit you to stop around me."

This made twenty-one houses that we had called at and asked for lodging, and at each place
we had been refused, simply because we were Mormons.

About midnight my partner grew very sick of his contract to do the begging and resolved to
die before he would ask for aid from such people again. I told him I would have both food and
lodging at the next place we stopped. He said it was useless to make the attempt, and I confess
that the numerous refusals we had met with were calculated to dishearten many a person; but
I had faith in God. I had never yet gone to Him in a humble and penitent manner without receiving
strength to support me, nor had He ever sent me empty-handed from Him. My trust was in God,
and I advanced to the next house, confident that I would not ask in vain.

As we approached the house we discovered that the negroes were having a dance. I asked where
their master was; they pointed out the house to me. We walked to the house and up on the porch.
The door was standing open; a candle was burning, and near the fire a woman was sitting holding
a sick child on her lap. The man was also sitting near the fire. Our footsteps attracted their
attention; our appearance was not inviting as we stood there wet, muddy, and tired. I spoke
in a loud voice, saying:

"Sir, I beseech you, in the name of Jesus Christ, to entertain us as servants of the living
God. We are ministers of the gospel, we travel without purse or scrip; we preach without hire,
and are now without money; we are wet, weary, and hungry; we want refreshment, rest, and shelter."

The man sprang to his feet, but did not say a word. His wife said:

"Tell them to come in."

"We will do you no harm; we are friends, not enemies," I said.

We were invited in. Servants were called, a good fire was made and a warm supper placed before
us. After eating we were shown to a good bed. We slept until near ten o'clock in the morning.
When we did awaken our clothes were clean and dry, and breakfast was ready and waiting for
us. In fact, we were as well treated as it was possible to ask.

This family had lately come from the State of Virginia, intending to try that climate for a
year, and then, if they liked it, purchase land and stay there permanently. After breakfast
the gentleman said:

"You had a severe time of it among the Christians yesterday and last night. As you are ministers,
sent out to convert sinners, you cannot do better than to preach to these Christians, and seek
to convert them."

He offered to send word all over the settlement and notify the people, if we would stay and
preach that night. We accepted his offer, and remained, thus securing the rest that we so much
needed, thanking God for still remembering and caring for us, His servants.

Agreeably to arrangements, we preached in the Methodist meeting- house to a very attentive
audience upon the first principles of the gospel. We alluded to the treatment of Christ and
His followers by the Pharisees and Sadducees, the religious sects of those days, and said that
we preached the same gospel, and fared but little better. This meeting-house had been built
conjointly by Methodists and Universalists. Members from both persuasions were present. Our
neighbor who had fed and cared for us leaned to the latter faith.

At the close of our remarks the class leader who had set the hounds on our track was the first
to the stand to invite us home with him. I told him that the claims of those who did not set
their dogs on us, after they had turned us from their doors hungry, were first with me - that
his claims were an after consideration. He said it was his negro boys that sent the hounds
after us; he would not be bluffed. He said that one of us must go with him - that if I would
not go Brother Frank must go. I told him that Elder Edwards could use his own pleasure, but
I would hold a meeting that night with our Universalist brethren; and thus we parted.

Elder Edwards went to spend the night with the class leader, while I attended a meeting with
the friends who had invited me home with them. I had a good time. Of their own accord they
made up a collection of a few dollars as a token of their regard for me. I was to meet Elder
Edwards at the house of my friend who took us in at midnight from the storm, an hour before
sun; but he did not put in an appearance for an hour after. When he got within talking distance
I saw by his features that he had been roughly dealt with. His first words were:

"He is the wickedest old man that I ever met with, and, if he don't repent, God will curse him."

That was enough, and I began to laugh. I conceived what he had to encounter the long night
before. He said:

"If the Lord will forgive me for going this time, I will never go again unless you are along."
I said to him:

"Brother Frank, experience teaches a dear school, yet fools will not learn at any other. I
knew what treatment you would receive, and refused to go. If you had been a wise man you would
have taken the hint and kept away from him."

We made our way through to Overton County, Tennessee. Here I advised my friend Edwards to return
to Nauvoo, and gave him money to pay his fare on a steamer, for he was not cut out for a preacher.

At Carlisle, the county seat of Overton County, I met with a young man, an elder, by the name
of Dwight Webster. Though but little experienced, yet he was a man of steady habits and an
agreeable companion. We held a number of meetings in this part of the country. Brother Webster
and I baptized several persons, and made a true friend of a wealthy merchant, named Armstrong,
who welcomed us to his house and placed us under his protection. He also owned a large establishment
in Louisville, Kentucky. He was an infidel, though an honorable gentleman. His wife Nancy,
and her sister Sarah, were both baptized.

While here I received a letter from Brother James Pace, one of my near neighbors in Nauvoo,
requesting me to visit his brother, William Pace, and his relatives in Rutherford County, Tennessee.
Elder A. O. Smoot and Dr. David Lewis succeeded us in this county, and in Jackson County, Tennessee,
and added many to those whom we had already baptized.

Brother Webster and I made our way through to Stone River, preaching by the way, as opportunity
occurred. Here I handed my letter of introduction to William Pace, brother of my neighbor,
James Pace, who received us kindly and procured us the liberty of holding forth in the Campbellite
chapel.

Here we were informed that the Campbellite preachers were heavy on debate; that none of the
other sects could stand before them, and that no one dare meet them in public or private discussion.
I replied that my trust was in God, that the message I had to bear was from Heaven; that if
it would not bear the scrutiny of man I did not want to stand by it; but if it was of God He
would not suffer His servants to be confounded.

"Truth is mighty and will prevail; Error cannot stand before Truth. If these men can overthrow
the gospel which I preach, the sooner they do it the better for me. I do not wish to deceive
anyone, or to deceive myself. If anyone can point out an error in the gospel which I preach,
I am willing to drop that error, and exchange it for truth."

The hour came, and Brother Webster and I both spoke. We spoke on the first principles of the
Gospel of Christ, as taught by the Saviour and His apostles.

Before sitting down I extended the courtesy of the pulpit to any gentleman that wished to reply
or offer any remarks either for or against what we had set forth. Parson Hall, the presiding
Campbellite minister, was on his feet in a moment and denounced us as impostors. He said we
were holding forth a theory that was fulfilled in Christ; that the canon of Scripture being
full, these spiritual gifts that were spoken of in the New Testament were done away with, being
no longer necessary. As for the story of the "Golden Bible" (Book of Mormon), that was absurd
in the extreme, as there were to be no other books or revelations granted. He quoted the Revelations
of St. John in his support, where they read:

"He that addeth to, or diminisheth from the words of the prophecies and this Book, shall have
the plagues herein written added to his torment," or words to that effect. I followed him in
the discussion, and quoted John where it reads:

"He that speaketh not according to the law and the testimony hath no light in him." I said
that my authority and testimony were from the Bible, the book of the law of the Lord, which
all Christian believers hold as a sacred rule of their faith and practice.

To that authority I hoped my worthy friend would not object. I illustrated my position by further
quotations from the criptures, and when our meeting was over the people flocked around Brother
Webster and myself in a mass, to shake hands with us and invite us to their houses - the Methodists,
Baptists, and Presbyterians especially.

The planters in this county were mostly wealthy, and prided themselves on being hospitable
and kind to strangers, especially to ministers of the gospel. We went from house to house and
preached two and three times a week. We saw that the seed had already been sown in honest hearts,
and we were near to them.

Knowing the danger of being lifted up by self-approbation, I determined to be on my guard,
attend to secret prayer, and to reading and keeping diaries. When at our friend Pace's house
Brother Webster and I would frequently resort to a lonely grove to attend to prayer and read
to ourselves.

CHAPTER IX - MORMONISM AND ITS ORIGIN

Only a short time after the events narrated it was arranged that Parson Hall and myself should
hold another discussion in the Campbellite chapel. Parson Hall did not want to meet me in discussion,
but he must do so or lose his flock, as all the people had become interested in the subject
of Mormonism. We met at the appointed time, and chose two umpires to act as moderators of the
meeting. The subject to be discussed was:

"Are apostles, prophets, and teachers, together with the spiritual gifts spoken of and recorded
by the Apostle Mark in his 16th chapter, necessary to the Church now as they were then?"

In his closing speech Parson Hall became very abusive and denounced the Mormons to the lowest
regions of darkness, and called the Prophet Joseph a vile impostor. I replied to him and closed
the discussion. It had been agreed that the Old and New Testaments should be the only authorities
to be quoted by us. The umpires refused to decide as to which one of us had the best of the
discussion. They said it rested with the people to decide for themselves. It was evident, however,
that the people were with me. The principal topic of conversation was about this strange Mormon
doctrine.

Parson Hall's flock was by no means satisfied with his course. He said the Mormon doctrine
was the strongest Bible doctrine he had ever heard of, and he feared the consequences of a
further discussion. But this would not satisfy the people, who wanted to hear and learn more
of it; so another discussion was agreed upon, in which Parsons Curlee and Nichols were to assist
Parson Hall, and prompt him. The subject was:

"Is the Book of Mormon of Divine origin, and has it come forth in direct fulfillment of prophecy?
And was Joseph Smith inspired of God?"

We selected three judges; the hall was thronged. I felt the responsibility of my situation,
but I put my trust in God to give me light and utterance to the convincing of the honest and
pure in heart. The discussion lasted many hours. I showed conclusively, both from the Old and
New Testaments, that, in accordance with Scripture and prophecy, the ten tribes of Israel had
been broken up and scattered upon the face of the earth. That sure and indisputable evidence
had been found and produced by which it was certain that the North American Indians were descendants
from the ten tribes of Israel. I showed this from many customs and rites prevalent among the
Indians, and there could be no doubt, in any rational mind, that these tribes had sprung from
the remnants of the scattered ten tribes of Israel. The prophecies of the Old and New Testaments,
the traditions and history of the Indians so far as known, their solemn religious rites and
observances, were conclusive evidence of this fact.

And God has repeatedly promised that, in His own good time, these tribes of Israel, this chosen
people, should be again gathered together; that a new and further revelation should be given
them and to the whole world, and that under this new dispensation Zion should be rebuilt, and
the glory of God fill the whole earth as the waters cover the mighty deep. It should be as
a sealed book unto them, which men deliver to one that is learned, saying, "Read this book,"
and he saith, "I cannot, for it is a sealed book." It is strange that a people once so favored
of God, strengthened by His arm and counseled by His prophets and inspired men, should have
wandered and become lost to all sense of duty to God! But so it was, until, as the prophet
says, the Book that should come unto them spoke to them out of the ground - out of the dust
of the earth; as a "familiar spirit, even out of the dust of the earth."

The Book that was to contain the Divine revelation of God was to come forth, written upon plates,
in a language unknown to men. But a man unlearned, not by his own power, but by the power of
God, by means of the Urim and Thummim, was to translate it into our language. And this record,
in due time, came according to God's will. It was found deposited in the side of a mountain,
or hill, called Cumorrah, written in the reformed Egyptian language, in Ontario County, in
the State of New York. It was deposited in a stone box, put together with cement, air-tight.
The soil about the box was worn away, until a corner of the box was visible. It was found by
the Prophet Joseph, then an illiterate lad, or young man, who had been chosen of God as His
instrument for making the same known to men.

The Prophet Joseph was a young man of moral character, belonging to no sect, but an earnest
inquirer after truth. He was not permitted to remove the box for a period of two years after
he found it. The angel of God that had the records in charge would not permit him to touch
them. In attempting to do so, on one occasion, his strength was paralyzed, and the angel appeared
before him and told him how that record contained the gospel of God and an historical account
of the God of Joseph in this land; that through their transgressions the records were taken
away from the people and hid in the earth, to come forth at the appointed time, when the Lord
should set His heart, the second time, to recover the remnant of His people, scattered throughout
all nations; that the remnant of His people should be united with the stick of Judah, in the
hands of Ephraim, and they should become one stick in the hands of the Lord. This is the Bible,
which is the stick of Judah, that contained the gospel and the records of the House of Israel,
till the Messiah came. The angel further informed Joseph that when the ten tribes of Israel
were scattered one branch went to the north; that prior to the birth of Jesus Christ the other
branch left Jerusalem, taking the records with them, of which the Book of Mormon is a part.
The branch of the ten tribes which went north doubtless have a record with them.

When these plates containing the Book of Mormon and God's will, as therein revealed, were removed
from Ontario County, New York, they were taken to Professor Anthon, of New York City, for translation.
He replied that he could not translate them, that they were written in "a sealed language,
unknown to the present age." This was just as the Prophet Isaiah said it should be.

Do any of the present denominations counsel with the Lord? No, they deny Revelation, and seek
to hide their ways from Him. Upon all such He pronounces woe. I do not wish to be considered
as casting aspersions on any other sect. It is not my purpose to do so. The love that I have
for truth and the salvation of the human family may cause me to offend, but if I do so it is
because of my exceeding zeal to do good. Remember that the reproof of a friend is better than
the smite of an enemy. Jesus said, "Woe unto you that are angry and offended because of the truth."

It is not policy on your part to be offended on account of the truth. If your systems will
not stand the scrutiny of men, how can they stand the test of the great Judge of both the living
and the dead? I place a greater value upon the salvation of my soul than I do upon all earthly
considerations.

After my second discussion I began to baptize some of the leading members of the Campbellite
Church. Among the first to be baptized were John Thompson and wife. Brother Thompson was sheriff
of Rutherford County, and an influential man. Among others who were baptized were Wm. Pace
and wife. Mrs. Pace was a sister of Parson Nichols, who assisted Parson Hall in his last discussion
with me. Major D. M. Jarratt and wife, Mrs. Caroline Ghiliam, Major Miles Anderson, and others
were also baptized and received into the Church.

My friend Webster, after being with me about a month, returned to visit and strengthen the
branches of the Church established in Smith, Jackson, and Overton counties. I continued my
labors on Stone River and Creple Creek about six months. During the most of this time I availed
myself of the opportunity of studying grammar and other English branches. During my stay I
lectured three times a week, Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sunday afternoons.

Sabbath forenoon I attended the meetings of other denominations. During this time I held four
public discussions in addition to those I had with Parson Hall. I held two discussions with
the Rev. James Trott, who for fifteen years had been a missionary to the Cherokee Nation. I
held a closing debate in that settlement with the Rev. Mr. Cantrall, of the Campbellite faith.
He came from a distance, at the request of friends, to endeavor to save the flock.

After consultation with Parson Hall and other members of the flock they refused to submit to
moderators or judges; neither were they willing to be confined to the Old and New Testaments
for authority to disprove the doctrine that I defended. Their proposition was that Mr. Cantrall
should speak first, bringing out any argument he chose; when he finished I was to conclude
the debate, and the people were to judge for themselves who had the best of the argument.

My friends would not consent to this arrangement, but I told the opposition they might have
it their own way. If the Rev. Cantrall wished to condescend to the platform of a blackguard,
in a case of necessity I would meet him there, though I preferred honorable debate to slander
and ridicule. This statement I made to the assembly prior to the gentleman's mounting the stand,
with Parsons Hill, Crulee, Trott, and Nichols as prompters.

They had provided themselves with a roll of pamphlets and newspapers, containing many of the
low, cunning, lying stories about the Prophet Joseph walking on the water, being a money digger,
an impostor, and a thousand such tales. Mr. Cantrall read and emphasized each story, as his
prompters handed them to him. He occupied two hours and a half in this manner, and about half
an hour in trying to point out discrepancies in the Book of Mormon.

He spoke of the absurdities of the boat that the Nephites built in which to cross the ocean,
from Asia to America, and said that it was built tight, excepting a little hole on top for
air, and that it would shoot through the water like a fish, and ridiculed such an absurdity.
He defied me to point to any such inconsistencies in the Holy Bible. He said the Bible was
a book of common sense, written by men inspired of God. It was full of good works and pure
characters, nothing like the impostor Joseph. He challenged me again to point to a single instance
in the Bible which would compare with the stories in the Book of Mormon. The idea of apostles
and prophets and supernatural gifts in the Church, as in the days of Christ, was absurd. He
said the History of Nephi was absurd and a burlesque upon common sense; that he hoped none
of the people would be led away by such nonsense and folly. I sat facing him during all his
long harangue of abuse and ridicule.

When it was my turn to speak I asked the reverend gentleman to occupy my seat. I did not want
more than thirty minutes to reply. I said to the assembly that a sense of duty to the truth,
and the cause I had espoused, alone prompted me to make any reply to the long tirade of abuse
and sarcasm they had been listening to. The gentleman and his prompters had gathered quite
an angry-looking cloud of pamphlets and newspaper slang and abuse, without quoting a single
passage of Scripture to disprove my position, or in support of their own. But on the contrary,
he had become an accuser of the brethren, speaking evil of things he knew not. The spirit of
persecution, hatred, and malice is not the spirit of the meek and lowly Saviour. The gentleman
tells you that the day of perfection has arrived, that Satan is bound in the gospel chain,
that we have no need of spiritual manifestations, that this is the reign of Christ. Now, I
will say that if this is the millennial reign of Christ, and the devil is bound in the gospel
chain, I pity the inhabitants of the earth when he gets loose again. After reading the description
of the millennial reign, as it shall be, as described by the Prophet Isaiah, can anyone be
so stupid as to believe that we are now living in that holy day? Shame on him who would deceive
and tamper with the souls of men! The gentleman who told you this, doesn't believe it.

The gentleman has challenged me to produce anything from the Bible equaling in strangeness
the building of a boat like a fish, in which the Nephites crossed the ocean from Asia to America.
I call his attention to the first chapter of the Book of Jonah. Here a very strange craft was
used for three days and nights, in which to send a missionary to Nineveh. This craft was constructed
after the manner of the boat spoken of in the Book of Mormon. If the prophet was correct in
the description of his craft, he too scooted through the water in the same way that the Nephites
did in their boat. The Book of Mormon is nothing more or less than a book containing the history
of a portion of the House of Israel, who left Jerusalem about the time of the reign of Zedekiah,
King of Judah, and crossed the ocean to America; containing also the gospel which was preached
to them on this continent, which is the same gospel as that preached by' Christ and His Apostles
at Jerusalem. The Bible and the Book of Mormon both contain a history of the different branches
of the House of Israel, and each contains the gospel of Christ as it was preached unto them,
the different branches of the house of Israel, and to all nations. Both testify of each other,
and point with exactness to the dispensation of the fullness of time. The Book of Mormon does
not contain a new gospel; it is the same gospel as that preached by Christ. It is a mysterious
book, just what the prophet said it should be, "a marvelous work, a wonder." But my friend
says that it is too mysterious, too wonderful, for human credence, and challenges me to point
out anything told in the Bible that seems inconsistent with reason or experience. Now, which
is the more reasonable, that Nephi built a boat after the pattern mentioned in the Mormon Bible,
being directed by God how to build it, and then crossed the ocean to this continent, or that
Jonah was in the whale's belly for three days and three nights, and then made a safe landing?
Or would it sound any better if Nephi had said that when he and his company came to the great
waters, the Lord had prepared whales, two or more, to receive them and their outfit, and set
them over on this side?

Nothing is impossible with God. If He saw fit to send Jonah on his mission in a whale's belly,
I have no fault to find with Him for so doing. He has the right to do His own will and pleasure;
and if He instructed Nephi how to fashion his boat, or Noah to build an ark against the deluge,
or caused Balaam's ass to speak and rebuke the madness of his master, or Moses to lead the
children of Israel through the Red Sea, without any boat at all, or the walls of Jericho to
fall to the ground, and the people to become paralyzed through the tooting of rams' horns,
or empowered Joshua to command the sun to stand still while he slaughtered his enemies, is
any of these things more wonderful than the other?

Now one of these instances that I have selected from the Bible, if found in the Book of Mormon,
would be sufficient to stamp it with absurdity and everlasting contempt, according to the gentlemen
who oppose me; but when found in the Bible the story assumes another phase entirely. It is
as the Saviour said of the Pharisees, "Ye strain at a gnat and swallow a camel." My opponent
strains at a gnat, when found in the Book of Mormon, but if camels are discovered in the Bible
he swallows them by the herd. I cannot see why a big story, told in the Bible, should be believed
any more readily than one found in the Book of Mormon.

It is not my purpose to find discrepancies in the characters of the ancient prophets or inspired
writers, but my opponent has challenged me to produce from the Bible a character of such disrepute
as that of Joseph, the Mormon Prophet. Now I will say that of the characters I shall mention
we have only their own history or account of what they did. Their enemies and contemporaries
have long since passed away. But if their enemies could speak worse of them than they have
of themselves, decency would blush to read their story. I will refer to only a few instances.

Moses, the meek, as he is called, murdered an Egyptian that strove with an Israelite, and had
to run away from his country for the offense. He was afterwards sent by God to bring the Israelites
out of bondage. Noah was a preacher of righteousness. He built the ark, and was saved through
the deluge. His name has been handed down from posterity to posterity, in honorable remembrance,
as one who feared God and worked righteousness. But we find him soon after the Flood getting
drunk, exposing his nakedness, and cursing a portion of his own posterity. Lot, whose family
was the only God-fearing family in Sodom and Gomorrah, rescued by the angel of God from the
judgments that overwhelmed those cities, when only a short distance from Sodom became drunk
and debauched his daughters. Think of the conduct of David with Uriah's wife - and David was,
we are told, a man after God's own heart. Also Judah, Judge in Israel. Peter cursed and swore
and denied his Master. The enemies of Christ said He was a gluttonous man and a wine bibber,
a friend of the publicans and sinners; that after the people at the marriage feast were well
drunken, He turned water into wine that they might have more to drink; that in the cornfield
He plucked the cars of corn and ate them; that He saw an ass hitched, and without leave took
it and rode into Jerusalem; that He went into the Temple and overset the tables of the money
changers and took cords and whaled them out, telling them they had made His Father's house
a den of thieves. I am aware that all Christians justify the acts of Christ, because He was
the Son of God. But the people at that time did not believe Him to be the Son of God, any more
than the gentleman believes that Joseph is the prophet of God. I have alluded to these instances
merely in answer to the challenge imposed upon me by my opponent.

Few seem to comprehend that man, in and of himself, is frail, weak, needy, and dependent, although
the Creator placed within his reach, as a free agent, good and evil, and instilled in the heart
of every rational being a degree of light that makes us sensitive to, and teaches us right
from, wrong. As the Saviour says:

"There is a light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world."

My argument as I relate it here has been abbreviated very much, lest I tire my readers. I had
scarcely closed speaking before my reverend opponents were making for the door. They would
have nothing more to do with the Mormons. Some were honest enough, however, to acknowledge
that Mormonism had stood the test; that it could not be disproved from the Bible, and sooner
or later all other creeds would have to give way to it, or deny the Bible, for the more it
was investigated the more popular it would become, as it would expose the many weak points
and inconsistencies of the different denominations. Others denounced it as an imposition, and
warned their adherents to have nothing to do with it. This kind of talk from the pulpit served
to give Mormonism a new impetus. I soon baptized many converts, and organized branches in that
and adjoining counties of over one hundred members.

CHAPTER X - LEE CASTS OUT DEVILS

After holding the discussion mentioned, Brother Young, of Jackson County, Tennessee, wished
me to go with him and join in a discussion with a couple of Campbellite preachers. At first
I declined, as the distance was nearly one hundred miles, and my labors in the ministry where
I was were pressing. I had more calls to preach than I could fill. However, I finally consented
to go and attend the discussion. On our arrival at the place agreed upon I learned that all
necessary arrangements had been made. The subject was:

"Is the Book of Mormon of Divine authenticity, and has it come forth in direct fulfillment
of prophecy found in the Old and New Testaments; and is Joseph Smith Divinely inspired and
called of God?"

There was a large concourse of people assembled. The discussion lasted two days. At the close
of the debate the judge decided that the Mormons brought forth the strongest reasonings and
Scriptural arguments, and that the other side had the best of the Mormons in sarcasm and abuse.

When I was about to leave, Brother Young exchanged horses with me, he keeping my pony, and
giving me a fine blooded black mare. I was then built up, so far as a good outfit for traveling
was concerned. Brother Young traveled with me as far as Indian Creek, Putnam County, twenty-five
miles southeast, as report said that a couple of Mormons had been there. We concluded to visit
the place and learn the facts.

This was about the 1st of March. It was Saturday when we arrived there. We rode at once to
the Methodist chapel. Here we found several hundred people assembled - the most distressed
and horrified worshipers my eyes had ever beheld. Their countenances and actions evinced an
inward torture of agony. Some of them were lying in a swoon, apparently lifeless; others were
barking like dogs; still singing, praying, and speaking in tongues - their eyes red and distorted
with excitement.

The chapel was situated in a yard surrounded with trees. I was so overcome with amazement and
surprise that I forgot I was on horseback. The first I remember was that a man had led my horse
inside the gate and was pulling me off, saying:

"Come, get down, you are a Mormon preacher; we are having fine times."

Presently a chair was set for me by some rational person, and I leaned my head upon my hands
and commenced praying. I was a stranger, both to the people and to their religious exercises.
I was puzzled, not knowing what to do.

There was a young woman, about eighteen years of age, of handsome form and features, in her
stocking feet, her beautiful black hair hanging down over her shoulders in a confused mass.
She was preaching what she called Mormonism, and warning the multitude to repent and be baptized,
and escape the wrath of God. In front of her stood a young Methodist minister, to whom she
directed her remarks.

He smiled at her.

Of a sudden she changed her tack, and belted him right and left for making light of what she said.

The next moment she confronted me, and shouted:

"You are a preacher of the true Church, and I love you!"

Thus saying, she sprang at me with open arms. I stretched forth my hand and rebuked the evil
spirit that was in her, and commanded it to depart in the name of the Lord Jesus, by virtue
of the holy Priesthood in me vested. At this rebuke she quailed, and turned away from me like
a whipped child, left the crowd, and went home, ashamed of her conduct. This gave me confidence
in God, and in Him I put my trust still more than I had ever done before.

It was now about sunset, and we had had no refreshments since morning. I arose and informed
the multitude that we would preach at that place on the morrow at ten o'clock. A merchant by
the name of Marshbanks invited us home with him, some of the leading men accompanying us.

They informed us that a couple of men, brothers, from west Tennessee, named William and Alfred
Young, formerly members of the Baptist Church, had joined the Mormons, and had been there and
preached; that they enjoyed spiritual gifts as the apostles anciently did, and had baptized
the people into that faith, and ordained John Young, who was Receiver of the Land Office there,
a preacher; that he had been an intelligent, well-educated man, but was now a fanatic; that
their leading men were ruined and business prostrated, and all through that impostor, Joe Smith.
They said he ought to be hanged before he did any more harm; that their settlement was being
ruined and all business stopped; that if anyone would give John Young, or Mark Young, his father,
who was formerly a Methodist class leader, his hand, or let either of them breathe in his face,
he could not resist them, but would come under the influence and join them. I told them that
I had been a member of this Church for a number of years and had never seen or heard of anything
of this kind.

The next morning about daybreak those two fanatics, the Youngs, were at Marshbanks' house.
They said they had had a glorious time through the night, and had made a number of converts.
I began to reason with them from the Scriptures, but as soon as I came in contact with their
folly they began to whistle and dance, and jumped on their horses and left.

Some time after, on our way to the chapel, my friend Marshbanks indulged in a great deal of
abuse of the Prophet Joseph. He told me that I could not be heard among the fanatics at the
chapel, and had better return to his house and hold a meeting there. I said to him:

"In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, I will preach there to- day, and not a dog will raise
his voice against me; you shall bear witness to it."

"Very well. I will go with you and try to keep order," he replied.

As we entered the chapel, the same scene of confusion prevailed that we observed the day before.
Some were stretched on the floor, frothing at the mouth, apparently in the agonies of death.
Others were prophesying, talking in tongues, singing, shouting, and praying. I walked into
the pulpit as a man having authority, and said:

"In the name of Jesus Christ, and by virtue and authority of the holy Priesthood invested in
me, I command these evil spirits that are tormenting you, to be still, while I lay before you
the words of life and salvation."

As I spoke every eye was turned upon me, and silence reigned; the evil spirits were subdued
and made powerless.

There were two Presbyterian ministers present who asked leave to take notes of my sermon, which
I freely granted, telling them they were at liberty to correct me if, in anything, I spoke
not according to the Law and Testimony of Christ. I preached a plain sermon on the first principles
of the gospel of Christ, as taught by the apostles. I showed them that the house of God was
a house of order, and not confusion; that the Spirit of God brings peace, joy, light, and complete
harmony.

Before I dismissed the meeting I asked my Presbyterian friends if they wished to reply to me.
They said they did not; that they were much pleased with my remarks, which were Scriptural
and reasonable.

Now I concluded to return to the branch at Rutherford County and continue my labors there.
A delegation came to me from the assembly and said:

"Mr. Lee, your discourse has turned us upside down. You have convinced many of us that we are
going astray. Do not, for mercy's sake, leave us in this situation. We are persuaded that many
are honest-hearted and will obey the truth." I replied:

"My mission is to preach the truth, to call erring children to repentance."

With that I appointed a meeting, and preached that evening at the house of David Young, a brother
of Mark Young, the Methodist class leader, to a large body of inquiring minds.

The following day I preached by the side of a clear running brook. After the preaching many
demanded to be baptized. I went down into the water and baptized twenty-eight persons, among
whom were two well educated young men. One was a nephew of Gov. Carlin, of Illinois; the other
was Brother McCullough, now a bishop at Alpine City, Utah.

Elder Samuel B. Frost had been laboring in DeKalb County, east Tennessee, where he baptized
about thirty converts. As he was on his return to Nauvoo, I asked him to tarry with me a few
days, and assist me, as Brother Young had returned home. Those of the people who had been under
the power of the spirit of darkness had become alarmed, and dared not trust themselves away
from us. We fasted and prayed three days and three nights, pleading with the Father, in the
name of the Son, to give us power over those evil spirits.

And here I will say that up to the time of my witnessing what I have narrated I was skeptical
on the subject of our power over evil spirits. I had heard of such manifestations, but had
never seen them with my own eyes. My experience here impressed me with the fact that we could
attain such power, and showed me the stern necessity of living near to God; for man, in and
of himself, is nothing but a tool for the tempter to work with.

As I said, the people dared not trust themselves away from us. Once we were in a large room
at Mark Young's house. I was sitting by a desk writing in my diary. Adolphus Young, the chairman
of the delegation which had waited on me and requested me to remain with them and set them
right, was walking to and fro across the room. As he came near me I noticed that his countenance
changed, and as he turned he cast a fearful glance at me. I kept my eyes upon him as he walked
away from me. When near the center of the room he wilted down and exclaimed:

"O God, have mercy on me!"

Without a word spoken, Elder Frost and I sprang to him. Laying my hands upon him I commanded
the evil spirits, by virtue of the holy Priesthood, and in the name of Jesus Christ, to come
out of him.

As I spoke these words I felt as if a thousand darts had penetrated my mouth, throat, and breast.
My blood ran cold in my veins; my pulse stopped beating; in a word, I was terror- stricken.
I saw a legion of evil spirits in the vision of my mind. And what was still more, they had
fastened their fangs in me. I was about to give up the contest, when another influence came
to my relief, and said to my spirit:

"Why yield to the powers of darkness? You hold the keys over evil spirits. They are subject
to your bidding in the name of Jesus, through faith."

This last comforting assurance relieved my fears, strengthened my faith, and gave me power
to overcome the evil spirits. I was only a minute or two in this situation, but during that
time I endured more agony, torture, and pain than I ever did before or since. The man was restored,
and bore witness to the power of God in his deliverance, and was to the day of his death an
honorable, good citizen.

During my stay here I added to this branch of the Church until it was more than fifty members
strong. My friend, Elder Frost, agreed to wait in Overton County until I could revisit the
branch in Rutherford County and set things in order there. Then I was to accompany him home
to our families in Nauvoo, the City of Joseph. I ordained Brother William Pace in the office
of the lesser Priesthood, to take charge of the Saints there. We also ordained Brother Adolphus
Young to preside over the branch at Indian Creek, Putnam County.

After calling on Brother Young. I joined my friend, Elder Frost, and drove to Nauvoo for him
six jacks and jennets to exchange for land, that on his coming he might have a place to dwell.
We had a pleasant journey to Nauvoo, as the weather was fine. On arriving in the city I met
my family, all in good health. I traded some of my stock with Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother,
for land.

It was now June, 1842. In the summer and fall I built me a two- story brick house on Warsaw
street, and made my family comfortable. I enclosed my ground and fixed things snug and nice.
I then took a tour down through Illinois. H. B. Jacobs accompanied me as a fellow companion
on the way. Jacobs was bragging about his wife, what a true, virtuous, lovely woman she was.
He almost worshiped her. Little did he think that in his absence she was sealed to the Prophet
Joseph.

We raised up a branch of the Church in Clinton County. Among others whom we baptized, were
the Free sisters, Louisa and Emeline; also the Nelsons. Emeline Free was afterward sealed to
Brigham, and her sister Louisa to myself.

In Randolph County, the home of my youthful days, I baptized my cousin Eliza Conners, with
whom I had been raised. I also baptized Esther Hall, the sister of my old friend Samuel Hall,
with whom I lived when I was first married. I was kindly received in my own county. Few, however,
cared to investigate the principles of Mormonism, as the most of them were Catholics.

In all my travels I was agent for our paper, the Nauvoo Neighbor, and collected means, tithings,
and donations for the building of the Temple. I returned home by steamboat.

Through the winter Joseph selected forty men for a city guard, from the old tried Danite veterans
of the cause. I was the seventh man chosen. These men were to be the life guard of the Prophet
and Patriarch and of the twelve apostles. My station as a guard was at the Prophet's mansion.
After his death my post was changed to the residence of Brigham, he being the acknowledged
successor of the Prophet. From the time I was appointed until we started across the plains,
when at home I stood guard every night; and much of the time in the open air, one-half of the
night at a time, in rain, hail, snow, wind, and cold.

CHAPTER XI - HOT FOR LEE IN TENNESSEE

During the winter of 1841 a letter was sent I the Prophet from the leading men and members
of the branch church on Stone River, Tennessee, and Creple Creek, Rutherford County, Tennessee,
desiring him to send me back to labor in that country, as it was a wide field for preaching.
They stated that I had so ingratiated myself among the people that no other man could command
the same influence and respect among them.

This was enough. In the latter part of February I took leave of my family and entered upon
my mission. To refuse to comply with the call of the Prophet is a bad omen. One so doing is
looked upon with distrust, renders himself unpopular, and is considered a man not to be depended
upon.

At the time I started the river was blocked with ice. I traveled on foot, without purse or
scrip, like the apostles of old, carrying out the motto of the Church, the bee of the desert,
"Leave the hive empty-handed and return laden." In this way I, as well as many other elders,
brought in money - thousands of dollars yearly - to the Church; and I might say hundreds of
thousands, as the people among whom I traveled were mostly wealthy, and when they received
the love of the truth their purses as well as their hearts were opened, and they would pour
out their treasures into the lap of the bishop. All were taught that a liberal man deviseth
liberal things, and by his liberality shall he live, and that he that soweth liberally shall
reap bountifully.

As I passed along my way I strengthened the brethren of the various branches, reminding them
of their duties, especially of the necessity of building the Temple. That duty was more important
than all others, for in that alone, when completed, they could attain to the highest exaltation
of the Priesthood, with all the spiritual gifts that belong thereunto.

When I arrived at my old home, the place of my childhood days, I there found Elder John Twist,
who was waiting my coming. We stayed in that neighborhood a few days, and then started on.
My uncle was going our way with a wagon for about one hundred miles, and we accompanied him.
I passed through Kaskaskia, where I was born, but did not preach there, for my uncle was in
a hurry to reach the point of his destination in Jackson County, where he was establishing
a woodyard on the Mississippi River. Here we intended to take steamer for Nashville, but no
steamer would receive us on board at the landing, as it was a bad one for boats.

While staying at that place we preached to the people, and made our home with Mr. V. Hutcheson,
and his sister Sarah, where we were treated very kindly. Finally a flatboat came in sight.
We hailed it and went aboard. We were soon on good terms with the captain and crew, and went
with them to Memphis, Tennessee. At this place the captain of the flatboat sold out his cargo,
and then offered to pay our fare on a steamer from Memphis to Nashville. While we were in Memphis
Gen. William Henry Harrison, then a candidate for President, arrived, and a great political
meeting of the Whig party was held in the open air.

After my friend Wm. Springer, the captain of the flatboat, had sold his cargo and received
his money, he invited Brother Twist and myself to go with him to a saloon. There were quite
a number of men in the saloon, fiddling, eating, drinking, and otherwise enjoying themselves.
Capt. Springer was not used to drinking. He soon got mellow, felt rich, and commenced throwing
his money around in a careless manner.

The saloon keeper was a man with an eye to business, and became particularly interested in
friend Springer. He treated him often and insisted on his drinking. I tried to get Springer
to his boat, and took him by the arm and started off with him, when one of the crowd told me
not to be so officious, that the man knew his own business and was capable of attending to
it. I said nothing in reply, but I sent Brother Twist in haste to the boat with word for the
crew to come at once before Springer was robbed of his money. They came, but not any too soon
for his benefit, as a row had commenced, with the design of going through him while it was on.

When the crew came I started for the boat with Springer, the crew keeping back the crowd of
drunken robbers. By acting in this way we saved him and his money too. Brother Twist and myself
refused all kinds of drinks that night. We were therefore sober and in condition to protect
the man who had favored us and been our friend. Next morning Springer wished to reward us,
but we refused to let him do so. I told him we had done nothing but our duty.

We parted with him and his crew, and took passage in a new steamer that was owned in Nashville,
and making its first trip from Nashville to New Orleans. The boat got into a race with the
Eclypse, another fast boat. The captain was a fine man. The crew were all negroes. One of the
firemen on our boat took sick, and was unable to do his work. I saw that the Eclypse was crowding
us closely. I threw off my coat and took the negro's place as fireman. There was a barrel of
resin near by; I broke the head with an ax and piled the resin on the fire. This had its effect,
and our boat soon left the Eclypse far in the rear. The steamers parted at the mouth of the
Ohio. The captain was so well pleased with my work that he gave Elder Twist and myself a free
passage.

When we reached Nashville. Elder Twist became homesick, and returned to Nauvoo. I gave him
ten dollars to pay his way home. I was thus left alone once more. I found the branch at Nashville
in a healthy condition, and much pleased to have me with them. I visited the branch in Putnam
County, and preached to them, advising all to go to Nauvoo. I added several new members to
the Church. By the next spring that entire branch had gone to Nauvoo.

The branch on Stone River also went to Nauvoo soon after I returned home. A delegation, headed
by Capt. John H. Redd, invited me to preach in the settlement where Capt. Redd lived. They
said I could not preach publicly, for my life would be in danger, as many of the citizens were
hostile to the Mormons and had run one man out of the neighborhood for practicing Mormonism,
and that Randolph Alexander had been run off for preaching Mormonism.

Capt. Redd was formerly a sea captain; he was a native of South Carolina. I told the delegation
I would preach if they gave general publicity to my appointment. They were startled at the
proposal, and said my life would not be safe if I undertook to preach in public. I told them
to trust that to God.

They returned home and gave general notice of when and where I would preach. At the appointed
time I started for the place of meeting, which was twenty miles from Murfreesborough. I was
met by a guard of ten men, headed by Capt. Redd, who came to meet and protect me.

The next day I preached to a large number of people. I spoke two hours to them, upon the subject
of our free institutions and the constitutional rights of American citizens. I told them who
I was and what I was; that I was a free American citizen; that I claimed the right of free
speech as a free man; that I held myself open for investigation; that if the people wished
me to set forth the tenets of our faith I would do so, otherwise I would leave; that if they
did not desire to hear the truth they could make it manifest and I would quit their country.
The vote was unanimous for me to tarry and preach to them. I preached there twice.

My first sermon was upon the apostasy of the Churches of the day and the necessity of a purer
gospel, proving what I said by the Scriptures. I followed with the origin and authenticity
of the Book of Mormon. I was induced to continue my sermons. I stayed there to do my Master's will.

After the fourth sermon I commenced to baptize members. The first one that I baptized at that
place was Parson John Holt, of the Christian faith. Then I baptized seven of the members of
his Church; then Capt. Redd and his family. This unexpected success of the gospel created great
excitement in that section of country.

About ten miles from where I preached lived two men, formerly lieutenants in the militia company
of Capt. Bogardus, of Missouri infamy and disgrace. These men had strayed into this section
of the country, and were employed by two wealthy farmers as overseers.

They circulated fearful stories about the Mormons in Missouri, and gathered up a mob of about
twenty-five men and came with them, determined to tar and feather me if I preached again. Word
reached the settlement of what was intended. The people flocked to me and asked what they should
do. I told them to wait and let me manage the affair.

The next day, Sunday, while I was preaching one of the ruffians by the name of Dickey made
his appearance with ten men. He informed me of his design, and said that I must quit preaching
and leave for other parts of the country.

"Not just yet," said I.

At this he and his men made a rush for me. As they started, the sisters next to the stand formed
a circle around me. While thus surrounded I continued my sermon. I refuted the absurd stories
of Dickey and his crew. I then told the people what had been done at Far West by Lieut. Dickey
and the members of Capt. Bogardus' company. The mob tore down my stand, but could not get at
me because of the sisters. Then they retired to consult.

Capt. Redd appointed a meeting to be held at his place that afternoon, and he told the people
that he did not want any person to come into his yard unless he came intending to behave; that
if any violence was used there someone would get hurt. I preached at his house that afternoon.
A fearful storm raged during most of the time, but this was fortunate, for it kept the mob away.

While I was preaching a drunken man interrupted me and called me a liar. Capt. Redd was sitting
near me with two large pistols, which he called his peacemakers. The insult was no more than
out of the fellow's mouth when Capt. Redd caught him by the neck and rushed him from the house
into the rain. The coward begged hard for himself, but he was forced to go out and sit under
a porch during the rest of the sermon. Capt. Redd was a kind-hearted, generous man, but would
not stand abuse.

The next Sunday was a cloudy day, so the meeting was held within doors. Dickey had by this
time raised his mob to fifty men, and made every arrangement to give me a warm reception. Two
ruffians who were intoxicated had been selected to start the disturbance, or "open the ball,"
as they called it. I had just commenced speaking when one of these men began to swear and use
indecent language, and made a rush for me with his fist drawn. I made a Masonic sign of distress,
when, to my relief and yet to my surprise, a planter pushed to my aid. He was the man who employed
Dickey. He took the drunken men and led them out of the crowd, and then sat by me during the
rest of my sermon, thus giving me full protection. That man was a stranger to me, but he was
a good man and a true Mason. His action put an end to mob rule at that place. After the meeting
I baptized ten converts.

Soon afterwards I was sent for by Col. Tucker to come a distance of thirty miles. I attended,
and delivered three lectures, which were well received by all, the Colonel in particular. He
was a wealthy Virginian, and he pressed me warmly to make his house my home. His wife and family
were very favorably impressed. They were of the Presbyterian order, and two of Mrs. Tucker's
brothers were ministers of that faith. I remained a few days, and made an appointment to preach
on the following Saturday and Sunday. Before leaving I let the Colonel's lady have books on
our faith, and then went to fill some appointments that I had made at Capt. Redd's. At the
appointed time I returned to preach, as I had promised, on Buckskin River.

Within half a mile of Col. Tucker's house was a Methodist chapel. At this place lived a New
Light preacher, an old man, who invited me to stop with him. He informed me that Col. Tucker
had become bitter against the Mormons because his wife believed in them; and that she wanted
to be baptized. She had left word with him, requesting me not to leave without baptizing her.

This was something I wished to avoid, so to prevent trouble I concluded not to go to Col. Tucker's
at all. I filled my appointments, and returned to my Christian friend's house for refreshments,
intending to make my way over the mountains that night, and thus avoid meeting Mrs. Tucker.

This, however, was not to be. I had just finished supper, and stepped to the door to start
back when I met Mrs. Tucker. She upbraided me for not calling to see her. I said that it was
contrary to the rules of our faith for an elder to interfere in any man's family against the
wish or will of the husband or parents; that she must keep quiet and the Lord would take the
will for the deed. The more I tried to reconcile her, the more determined she grew to be baptized.

While I was talking with her a young man came to us and reported that Col. Tucker had ambushed
himself, with a double-barreled shotgun, near the place of baptizing, swearing vengeance against
the man that attempted to baptize his wife. I tried to persuade her to return, but in vain.
She said to me:

"You have declared that your mission is from Heaven, that you are a servant of God; and I believe
it. Now I demand baptism at your hands. If you are a servant of God, don't shrink from your duty."

I looked at her for a moment, and said: "Sister, if you have faith enough to be baptized under
these circumstances, I have faith enough to try it."

Some personal friends who lived in the little village accompanied us to the water, a short
distance above the usual place of baptizing, and were present during the performance of the
ordinance. They advised her to return home immediately, with her two servants, and never let
on that anything had happened.

For myself, I started for the house of my friend, carrying my boots in my hand. It was now
dark. As I got to the top of a high fence and cast my eyes about me, I luckily saw a man with
a double-barreled shotgun in his hands, or what I supposed was such. He was within ten steps
of me, or nearer. I recognized Col. Tucker.

Having heard of his threats, I was induced not to tempt him too far. I placed my hands on the
fence and leaped over it, alighting on the other side, near a cross fence which separated the
garden from a field of corn. As quick as thought I got among the corn, which was at full height.
I was within twenty feet of Tucker and could hear all that was said. I heard him rave, and
demand with oaths what my friends, who came up, were doing there. Had they been baptizing his
wife? I recognized the voice of the parson's lady with whom I was stopping. She had the wet
clothes of Mrs. Tucker.

"Tell me," said Tucker, "if my wife has been baptized, or I will blow your brains out." The
reply was: "She has been baptized."

"Where is that infernal Mormon preacher?" demanded the Colonel; "I will put a load of shot
through him."

"He is in that cornfield," was the reply.

The Colonel raved the more. Finally some of his friends persuaded him to return home, and not
disgrace himself. He pretended to do so, but it was only a feint to get me out.

After waiting until all was quiet I returned to the house of my friend, and passing through
the door went out on the porch. I sat down and was slipping off my socks, to put on dry ones,
when I heard a rustling in the room behind me. The next moment Col. Tucker had his gun leveled
on me, but it flashed in the pan. He then whirled up the butt of it to fell me to the earth.

Seeing my danger I sprang and caught him around the waist, with one of his arms in my grasp,
which left him only one arm loose.

"I have you now where I want you," he cried.

He was a strong, muscular man, and, no doubt, supposed I would be no match for him. I ordered
a young man who stood near to take his gun. I then gripped him with an iron hug, and sent him
back into the room.

The old gentleman with whom I was stopping ordered him out of the house unless he would behave
himself. He said he had invited me to his house, and felt it his duty to protect me. The Colonel
replied that he would go if he could; he never knew before that when he was in the hands of
a Mormon he was in a bear's clutches. I said:

"I will take you out if it will accommodate you."

Thus saying, I stepped out on the porch with him. I saw that he was willing to go. This gave
me new courage.

"Let me go, or I will blow your brains out when I get loose," he said.

"There is one condition on which I will let you go, which is that you will go home and be quiet
and trouble me no more," I replied.

"I will settle with you for all this," was his answer.

It was in the month of July, and very warm. I had hugged him closely, and he was growing weak.
As I was in the act of dashing him to the ground he begged of me, saying that if I would set
him loose he would go and trouble me no more. I let him fall to the ground, handed him his
gun, and let him live. When he got a little distance away he began threatening me, and said
he would be revenged. When all had quieted down I retired to rest in the upper story of my
friend's house.

About one o'clock in the morning I was awakened by a voice which I recognized as the voice
of Mrs. Tucker. She informed me that her husband was bent on my destruction, and he and ten
men were then waylaying my road, and advised me not to start in that direction. Her husband
had accused her of wetting the loads in his gun to save my life; but she told me to be of good
cheer and put my trust in God, and that she had not regretted the steps she had taken. I thanked
her for her kindness, and begged her to return home and not see me any more; that I was in
the hands of God, and He would protect me and deliver me safe; that her visits would only make
her husband more enraged at her.

At four o'clock I awoke, dressed myself, and ordered the servant to saddle my horse. As the
servant hitched my horse to the post Tucker and several men appeared upon the ground. Tucker
told the servant that he would shoot him in two if he saddled my horse. I spoke to Tucker,
saluting him with the time of day. His reply was:

"I have got you now."

Thus saying, he ordered his nephew to bring Esquire Walls immediately.

After washing, I took my seat on the porch, and got out my Bible to read. Tucker stood about
ten steps from me to guard me and my horse.

While this was the situation my old friend, the New Light preacher with whom I was lodging,
had a fine horse saddled and hitched on the south side of the cornfield. He advised me in a
whisper to pass down through the cornfield while I could do so without being detected, take
the horse, and thus get out of the county before a warrant had been issued for my arrest.

Deliverance was very tempting, yet I did not like the name of running away from trouble. It
would convey the impression of fear, if not of guilt. So I chose to face the music and abide
the consequences. A little after sunrise I saw Justice Walls coming, and some men with him.
At this my heart leaped for joy. Among so many I was satisfied all were not against me, as
some of them had attended lectures and were favorably impressed.

After a short interview with Col. Tucker, Justice Walls informed me that Col. Tucker demanded
from him a warrant for my arrest for having baptized his wife without his consent. I asked
Col. Tucker if he ever forbid me to baptize his wife; whether he had not invited me to his
house and asked me to stop there when I returned. I told him I had not seen him, after this
conversation, until his wife was baptized; that I had not urged her to be baptized - she had
come to me and demanded to be baptized. I told the Justice that I had violated no law of Tennessee.
The law allows a wife much greater privileges than being baptized without the consent of her
husband; she could sell one-third of his real estate, and her deed would be good. The Justice
said I was right, and told the Colonel it would be useless to issue a warrant without lawful cause.

The Colonel then demanded a warrant for my arrest on the charge of assault and battery. He
said I had abused his person, and that he was sore and scarcely able to walk. The Justice told
the Colonel that it seemed to him that he was the one who made the assault; for he snapped
a loaded gun at me and attempted to take my life, while what I had done was in self-defense.
He told Col. Tucker he would talk with him again. He then beckoned me to follow him, and I
did so. We went into a room by ourselves, when he said to me,

"Parson Lee, you have warm friends here. I have been much interested in your lectures. I believe
you to be honest and firm in your faith, and will do all I can for your benefit. Col. Tucker
is a desperate man when aroused. As a matter of policy, to humor him, I will give him a writ;
but I will manage to delay the time, so as to enable you to get out of the county. I will send
for my law books, with instructions to delay in getting them here, and will argue with the
Colonel that I must have my books to examine the law. It is only four miles to the county line,
where you will be all right. Take the trail over the mountain, and they will not know which
way you have gone. When you get into your own county, remember me on election day. This county
and Rutherford County send three members to the Legislature. I am a candidate, and the vote
of your friends in these counties will secure my election. When I send for my books appear
and bid us good-by, as though you were not afraid of any man. Col. Tucker has promised that
he will use no violence if I give him a writ."

The Justice then gave me a token of the Brotherhood, and walked out to confer with Col. Tucker.
He sent his nephew back for his books, instructing him in whispers to delay in getting them,
so as to give me time to get out of the county before an officer could overtake me.

After the boy started, the Justice told the Colonel to keep cool and he would soon have a writ
for me. I went into the dining-room and sat down to breakfast, and ate a little as a blind.
Then taking up my saddlebags, I bade them all good-by. I walked to my horse, that stood hitched
where the servant had left him.

As I left the house Justice Walls followed me as though he was much surprised, and said:

"Parson Lee, I hope you will tarry until this matter can be settled amicably."

Again I told him that I had violated no law; that my ministerial engagements compelled me to
leave, and I should have done so before had not this unpleasant affair detained me; that I
chose to serve God rather than fear the ire of man.

Thus saying, I placed my saddle upon my horse. Col. Tucker leveled his gun on me, and said:

"I knew you would run."

At this I turned and eyed him and told him to put up his gun; that I had borne all I intended
to from him; that if he attempted violence he would never trouble another man. At the same
time the Justice exhorted him to be careful, saying that he had made himself liable already.
I mounted my horse and turned to the Colonel and told him he might guard that woodpile until
the day of judgment, for all I cared. He again raised his gun, but was prevented by the by-standers
from shooting. I rode off leisurely, and when about seventy-five yards away I stopped and watered
my horse. Tucker again drew his gun on me, and I expected him to shoot every moment, but I
dared not show fear.

My road lay along the mountain for two miles. When I passed a house I would walk my horse,
and sing and seem to be wholly unconcerned; but when I was out of sight I put my horse on the
keen jump, and was soon out of Marshall County. Finding an out- of-the-way place, with good
blue grass and plenty of shade, I swung down from my horse and returned thanks to my Father
in heaven for my deliverance.

In the afternoon I arrived at the house of Capt. Redd, where, when in that county, I generally
made my home. The brethren all came to welcome me back, and I related to them my experience
and deliverance. A short time after this James K. Polk and Col. Jones, both candidates for
the office of Governor of Tennessee, and the candidates for the Legislature, including my friend
Walls, met at Murfreesborough and held a political meeting. Walls gave me the sequel of what
happened with Col. Tucker.

When Justice Walls' nephew went for the law books he permitted his horse to run away, and it
was nearly ruined in the brush and grapevines. Col. Tucker did not blame the Justice at all,
but rather sympathized with him in his misfortune. Mrs. Tucker to the end remained firm in
her faith.

The kindness of Justice Walls in my hour of peril was not forgotten. I spoke of it in all my
meetings, and to my friends in private. And to this act of justice and humanity he owed his
election, as he was elected by a majority of only five votes.

Next I visited the branch on Stone River and made arrangements to return to my family at Nauvoo,
the City of Joseph. The two branches now numbered about sixty members. I organized a branch
west of Murfreesborough, and ordained Brother John Holt to the office of Elder. I baptized
a young girl at Readysville, by the name of Sarah C. Williams, of rich parentage. I lectured
at Murfreesborough for ten days, and about the beginning of October, 1843, I took the steamer
at Nashville for my home in Nauvoo, arriving there on the 14th of October.

CHAPTER XII - OF PECULIAR INTEREST IN NAUVOO

Upon my return home I found my family well. Work on the Temple was progressing finely, every
effort being made to push it ahead. About this time a man named Bennett came on a visit to
the Prophet, and soon after joined the Church. At that time he wielded quite an influence in
government affairs. He grew in the graces of the Prophet and became his right-hand man. He
endeavored in connection with Stephen A. Douglass to obtain a charter for the city of Nauvoo.

Bennett organized the Nauvoo Legion, and was elected Major General. Through his influence,
backed by Douglass, arms were obtained for the Legion from the government. A Free Mason's lodge,
and the privileges of Masonry, were extended to the Legion. Judge Cleveland, of Springfield,
was very friendly, and frequently visited the Prophet. A fine Masonic lodge was built in Nauvoo,
and many were admitted as members. The Prophet Joseph and Hyrum Smith held high positions in
the brotherhood.

The institution flourished during our stay in Nauvoo, and was frequently visited by the Grand
Worshipful Master from Springfield; lectures were given and a library established. I was librarian
of the order. I was also Wharf Master of the city, and held the position of Major in the Nauvoo
Legion; also, I commanded the escort in the Fifth Infantry. I was made the general clerk and
reader for the Seventies, and issued the laws to that body. I held the office of a Seventy,
and was collector of the delinquent military tax.

The same fall I was appointed on a committee, with Brigham as counselor, to build a hall for
the Seventies, the upper story to be used for the Priesthood and the Council of Fifty. Previous
to my being appointed on the committee two committees had been named, but accomplished nothing.
We commenced without a dollar. My plan was to build it by shares, of the value of five dollars
each.

Hyrum Smith, the Patriarch, told me that he would give the Patriarchal Blessing to any that
labored on the foundation of the building. The Seventies numbered about four hundred and ninety
men. I was to create the material. That is, when I could get a contract to take lumber from
the river, as rafts would land at the city, I would take common laboring men, and the portion
of the lumber that we got for our pay we piled up for the building. In this way we got all
the lumber needed. The bricks we made ourselves, and boated the wood to burn them and our lime
from the island.

In the month of March, 1844, we had the building up on the west side nearly two stories high.
One day when the wall was built up nine feet high and forty-five feet long, and was, of course,
green, a tornado blew the wall down, breaking columns and joists below, doing a damage of several
thousand dollars. I was inclined to be down in the lip, but Brigham laughed at me, and said
it was the best omen in the world; it showed that the devil was mad, knowing that the Seventy
would receive the blessings of God in that house; since they were to be special witnesses to
the nations of the earth, they would make his kingdom quake and tremble. Brigham reminded me
that when Noah was building the ark he was mobbed three times; but he persevered, and finally
his tormentors said:

"Let the old fool alone, and see what he will accomplish."

"Just so with you," concluded Brigham. "Double your diligence and put her up again. If you
do not you will lose many a blessing."

After that I went to work with as many men as could labor to advantage. We threw the wall down
flat, and commenced a new one, another brick thicker than the former. I borrowed fifty thousand
brick, and made them and returned them when the weather was fine. By the 1st of May we had
the Hall closed in.

During the winter Joseph the Prophet set a man by the name of Sidney Hay Jacobs to select from
the Old Bible such scriptures as pertained to polygamy, or celestial marriage, with instructions
to write it in pamphlet form. This he did as a feeler among the people, to pave the way for
celestial marriage. Like all other novelties, it met with opposition, though a few favored it.

The excitement among the people became so great that the subject was laid before the Prophet.
No one was more opposed to it than was his brother Hyrum, who condemned it as from beneath.
Joseph saw that it would break up the Church should he sanction it, so he denounced the pamphlet
through the Wasp, a newspaper published at Nauvoo, as a bundle of nonsense and trash. He said
that if he had known its contents he would never have permitted it to be published.

At the same time other leading men were advocating it on their own responsibility. The advocacy
of polygamy by these leaders pleased the Prophet Joseph, albeit for policy's sake he pretended
otherwise. Joseph said on the stand that, should he reveal the will of God concerning them,
they - pointing to President W. Marks, P. P. Pratt, and others - would shed his blood. In this
way he worked upon the feelings and minds of the people, until they feared that the anger of
the Lord would be kindled against them, and they insisted upon knowing the will of Heaven concerning
plural wives.

The Prophet Joseph anxiously desired polygamy, but he dared not proclaim it, so it was taught
confidentially to such as were strong enough in the faith to take the forward step. About the
same time the doctrine of "sealing" for an eternal state was introduced. Also the Saints were
given to understand that their marriage relations with each other were not valid, and that
those who had solemnized the rites of matrimony had no authority of God to do so. The true
priesthood had been taken from the earth with the death of the apostles and inspired men of
God. Since then people were married to each other only by their own covenants, and if their
marriage had not been productive of blessings and peace, and they felt it oppressive to remain
together, they were at liberty to make a new choice, as much as if they had not been married.
The Prophet taught that it was a sin for people to live together and beget children in alienation
from each other. There should exist an affinity between the sexes, not a lustful one, as the
latter can never cement the love and affection that should exist between man and wife.

Perhaps I should mention that Orson Hyde and W. W. Phelps turned against Joseph in Missouri,
and forsook him in time of peril and danger and testified against him in the courts. After
the troubles were over, and Joseph was again in place in the midst of the Saints, they both
wished to be restored to fellowship and standing in the Church, confessing their faults. Joseph
laid the case before the Church, and said that if God could forgive them he ought to, and would
do so, and give them another chance. With tears he moved that we forgive and receive them back
into fellowship. He then sent Elder Hyde to the land of Palestine, to dedicate that land for
the gathering of the Jews. Also Hyde's wife, with his consent, was sealed to Joseph for an
eternal state. Brigham's wife was likewise sealed to Joseph. Shortly before the death of Joseph
Brigham told me that Joseph's time on earth was short, and that the Lord allowed him privileges
that we could not have.

There was trouble between Joseph and Brother Law, his second counselor, on account of Law's
wife. Law said that the Prophet purposed making her his wife, and she so reported to her husband.
Law loved his wife and was devoted to her, as she was an amiable and handsome woman, and he
did not feel like giving her up to another man. He exposed the Prophet, and from that time
became his enemy.

His brother, Wilson Law, sided with him. They were Canadians, and wealthy and influential men.
They, in connection with Foster and Higbee, who were on the wane in the faith, established
a paper at Nauvoo, called the Expositor. They set the Prophet up without mercy. They soon got
after Brigham for trying to influence Martha Brotherton to be sealed to Joseph. Her father
found it out and helped to expose them, which made it rather hot for them. The next move of
the Prophet and his friends was to get the City Council to pass an ordinance declaring the
Expositor to be a nuisance, unless the proprietors would close it up.

When I moved to Nauvoo I had one wife and one child. Soon after I got there I was appointed
as the Seventh Danite. I had superiors in office, and was sworn to secrecy, to obey the orders
of my superiors, and not let my left hand know what my right hand did. It was my duty to do
as I was ordered, and not to ask questions. I was instructed in the secrets of the Priesthood,
and taught that it was my duty, and the duty of all men, to obey the leaders of the Church,
and that no one could commit sin so long as he acted as directed by his Church superiors.

One day the Danite Chief came to me and said that I must take two more Danites whom he named
and watch the house of a widow woman named Clawson. I was informed that a man went there nearly
every night about ten o'clock, and left about daylight. I was to station myself and my men
near the house, and when the man came out knock him down and mutilate him; it would not be
inquired into if we killed him.

It was my duty to report unusual orders that I received from my superiors to the Prophet, Joseph
Smith, or in his absence, Hyrum. I went to the house of the Prophet to report, but he was not
at home. I then called for Hyrum, and he gave me an interview. I told him the orders I had
received from the Chief, and asked him if I should obey or not. He said to me:

"Brother Lee, you have acted wisely in listening to the voice of the Spirit. It was the influence
of God's Spirit that sent you here. You would have been guilty of a great crime if you had
obeyed your Chief's orders."

Hyrum then told me that the man I was ordered to attack had been sealed to Mrs. Clawson, and
their marriage was a most holy one; that it was in accordance with a revelation which the Prophet
had recently received direct from God. He explained to me fully the doctrines of polygamy,
wherein it was permitted, and why it was right. I was greatly interested in the doctrine. It
accorded exactly with my views of the Scripture, and I at once accepted and believed in the
doctrine as taught by the revelations received by Joseph the Prophet. As a matter of course
I did not carry out the orders of the Chief. I had him instructed in his duty, and Mrs. Clawson's
husband was never bothered by the Danites. A few months after, I was sealed to my second wife.
I was sealed to her by Brigham, then one of the twelve.

In less than one year after I first learned the will of God concerning marriage among the Saints,
as made known by Him in a revelation to Joseph, I was the husband of nine wives. I took my
wives in the following order: First, Agathe Ann Woolsey; second, Nancy Berry; third, Louisa
Free; fourth, Sarah C. Williams; fifth, old Mrs. Woolsey (she was the mother of Agathe Ann
and Rachel A. - I married her for her soul's sake, for her salvation in the eternal state);
sixth, Rachel A. Woolsey (I was sealed to her at the same time that I was to her mother); seventh,
Andora Woolsey (a sister of Rachel); eighth, Polly Ann Workman; ninth, Martha Berry; tenth,
Delithea Morris.

In 1847, while at Council Bluffs, Brigham sealed me to three women in one night, viz., eleventh,
Nancy Armstrong (she was what we called a widow, that is, she had left her first husband in
Tennessee, in order to be with the Mormon people); twelfth, Polly V. Young; thirteenth, Louisa
Young (these two were sisters). Next, I was sealed to my fourteenth wife, Emeline Vaughn. In
1851 I was sealed to my fifteenth wife, Mary Lear Groves. In 1856 I was sealed to my sixteenth
wife, Mary Ann Williams. In 1858 Brigham gave me my seventeenth wife, Emma Batchelder. I was
sealed to her while a member of the Territorial Legislature. In 1859 I was sealed to my eighteenth
wife, Teressa Morse. I was sealed to her by order of Brigham. Amasa Lyman officiated at the
ceremony. The last wife I got was Ann Gordges. Brigham gave her to me, and I was sealed to
her in Salt Lake by Heber C. Kimball. She was my nineteenth, but, as I was married to old Mrs.
Woolsey only for her soul's sake, and she was near sixty years old when I married her, I never
considered her really as a wife. After 1861 I never asked Brigham for another wife. By my eighteen
real wives I have been the father of sixty-four children. Ten of my children are dead and fifty-four
are living.

To return to Nauvoo: The Prophet Joseph had written a letter to Martin Van Buren, wishing to
know his views in regard to the grievances and wrongs of the Mormon people, and what would
be his action should he be elected President. He replied that he believed their cause was just,
and Congress had no right to interfere; that it was a State matter, and must be left to the
Executive.

The Prophet addressed another letter to Wm. H. Harrison, on the same subject. His answer was
but little more satisfactory.

Joseph then drew up a statement of his own, of the power and policy of the Government. A convention
was called, and the Prophet nominated as a candidate for the Presidency. He set forth his views
in the Nauvoo Neighbor, formerly the Wasp. He stated that if the people would elect him President
it would be the salvation of the nation; otherwise, the Union would soon be severed. The two
political parties would continue to influence the people until it would end in civil war, in
which all nations would take part, and this nation be broken up. At this convention the elders
were assigned missions to different States. I was sent to stump the State of Kentucky, with
ten elders to assist me.

"You had better shut up the Seventies' Hall and obey the last call of the Prophet," Brigham
said to me.

Things looked squally before I left, with little prospect of growing better. I left Nauvoo
on the 4th of May, 1844, with greater reluctance than I had on any previous mission. It was
hard enough to preach the gospel without purse or scrip; but it was as nothing compared to
offering the Prophet Joseph to the people as a candidate for the highest gift of the nation.
I would a thousand times rather have been shut up in jail than to have taken the trip, but
I dared not refuse.

About one hundred of us took the steamer Ospray for St. Louis. Our mission was understood by
all the passengers on board. I was not long kept waiting before the subject was brought up.
I had made up my mind to banish fear and overcome timidity. I made the people believe that
I felt highly honored by my mission to electioneer for a prophet of God. It was a privilege
few men enjoyed in these days. I endeavored to make myself agreeable by mixing with the passengers
on the steamer. I told them that the Prophet would lead both candidates from the start.

There was a large crowd on the boat, and an election was proposed. Judges and clerks were appointed
and a vote taken. The Prophet received a majority of seventy-five, out of one hundred and twenty-five
votes polled. This created a tremendous laugh, and we kept it up till we got to St. Louis.
Here the most of us took the steamer Mermaid.

The change of steamers afforded me a new field of labor. I met a brother of Gen. Atchison,
one of the commanders of the militia that served against the Church at Far West. He became
interested in me, and when we parted at Smithland he invited me to go home with him and preach
in his neighborhood.

My destination being Frankfort, I could not accept his invitation. I started for Lexington,
by way of Georgetown, lecturing as I went. I finally got to the capital, put up at a hotel,
and endeavored to hire the State House to speak in, but found it engaged.

My funds were low, and my hotel hill was four dollars per day. After three days' trial I hired
the Court House. The people said that no Mormon had ever been able to get a hearing, though
several had attempted to do so.

When evening came I had to light up the house and ring the bell. Elder Frost assisted me. Soon
the hall was filled with juveniles, from ten to fifteen years of age. I understood the trick.
The people supposed I would leave, but to their surprise I arose and said I was glad to see
the young ones out in such numbers; that I knew they had good parents, or they would not be
there; that if they would take seats and be quiet we would sing them our Mormon songs.

Elder Frost was a charming singer. We sang two or three songs. Our juvenile hearers seemed
delighted. I then knelt down and prayed. By this time the hall was crowded with grown men,
and I begged them not to crowd out my little friends. I then spoke an hour and a half upon
the constitutional rights of American citizens. I spoke of the character of the Southern people;
how they were noted for their generous treatment of strangers; but I feared from the treatment
I had received, I had missed my way in Kentucky. My sires were of Southern birth; my father
was a relative of the Revolutionary Lee, of Virginia; my uncle was from Lexington, Kentucky,
I had come a stranger into their midst, but I felt confident the right of speech would be extended
to us, who were ministers of the gospel, dependent upon the generosity of the people for food
and raiment. Nor did we preach for hire. If they wished, we would remain there and lecture,
and if it met the approbation of the people they could have the gospel preached to them without
money and without price.

The first man that spoke up was a saddler. He said he was a poor man, but we were welcome to
his house, giving the street and number. About twenty more responded in like manner, among
them the most wealthy men of the county. We went home with a rich farmer, and continued our
labors, having more calls than we could fill.

We were sent for by a rich planter who lived about twenty miles away. I was anxious to extend
our labors as much as was advisable. On our way to the planter's we found it difficult to obtain
dinner. The orthodox people did not like to associate with Mormons. I finally asked them to
direct me to where some infidel or gambler lived. They wanted to know what on earth I wanted
of such. I replied:

"To get something to eat. Infidels and gamblers are too liberal- minded to turn a stranger
away from their door. The Saviour ate with publicans and sinners - for the very reason that
we do, for the Scribes and Pharisees would not feed Him."

They pointed us to the next house, where we were kindly received and entertained. The gentleman
informed us that he belonged to no Church, but had an interest in a church, and said we were
welcome to preach there. He made an appointment for us to preach.

We preached, and were received with kindness. I soon began to baptize, and calls came in from
every side, when one day the papers brought us the news of the assassination of the Prophet
Joseph and his brother Hyrum.

We returned immediately to Frankfort, as I expected the elders there, to learn what to do.
We all retired to Maple Grove, on the Kentucky River, and kneeled in prayer and asked the Lord
to show us whether or not these reports were true. I was the mouth-in- prayer, but received
nothing definite in answer to my prayer. I told the elders to follow their own impressions,
and if they wished to do so to return to Nauvoo. Each of them made his way back. I spent the
evening with a Mr. Snow. He claimed to be a cousin of Brother Erastus Snow, and was favorable
to us. We spent the evening talking over the reported deed.

The next morning about ten o'clock my mind was drawn out in prayer. I felt as though the solemnity
of eternity was resting with me. A heavenly, hallowed influence fell upon me, and continued
to increase until I was electrified from head to foot. I saw a large personage enter the door
and stand before me. His apparel was as white as the driven snow and his countenance as bright
as the noonday sun. I felt paralyzed, and was speechless and motionless. He remained with me
but a moment, then receded through the door.

This bright being's influence drew me from my chair and led me south about three hundred yards,
into a plot of clover and blue grass, and under a persimmon tree, which afforded a pleasant
shade. I fell prostrate upon my face. While here I saw Joseph the Prophet and Hyrum the Patriarch,
and the wounds by which they had been assassinated.

This personage spoke to me in a soft, low voice, and said that the Prophet and Patriarch had
scaled their testimony with their blood. Our mission was like that of the apostles, and our
garments were clear of the blood of the nation; I should return to Nauvoo and wait until power
was granted us from on High; as the mantle of priesthood fell upon the Apostle Peter, so should
it rest with the twelve apostles of the Church for the present. Thus the vision closed, and
I gradually returned to my native element.

Rising up I looked at my watch and saw that I had been there an hour and a quarter. Returning
to the house my friend Snow asked me if I was ill. I replied in the negative. He said I was
very pale, and that he saw my countenance change while I sat in my chair; that when I went
out of doors it was as though every drop of blood had left me, or been changed. I then told
him that the reports in the papers were true, and the two Saints, the Prophet and the Patriarch,
were no more. I asked him to take me to the landing; I wished to get the evening packet, as
my labors were done in that country. He importuned so hard that I told him what I had seen.

He saddled a horse for me and one for himself, and we started, in company with several others,
for the landing. When we were about to embark on the steamer Mr. Steele, a brother of the captain,
introduced me to the captain. About eight persons demanded baptism; I could not stop, but advised
them to come to Nauvoo. Among them was my friend Snow. I had a cabin passage free. When I reached
Nauvoo I found excitement at highest point.

CHAPTER XIII - DEATH OF JOSEPH SMITH

Joseph the Prophet and Hyrum, his brother, were assassinated on the 24th day of June, 1844,
at Carthage, about twenty miles from Nauvoo, while under the pledged faith of Governor Ford,
of Illinois. Governor Ford had promised them protection if they would stand trial and submit
to the judgment of the court. By his orders the Nauvoo Grays were to guard the jail while the
prisoners awaited trial. The mob was headed by Williams and Sharp, editors of the Nauvoo Signal.
When they approached the jail the guard made no resistance, but fell back.

Brother Stephen Markham, who had been to visit the prisoners an hour or so before they were
killed, gave Joseph an Allen revolver. A part of the mob rushed upstairs, to the inner door
of the prison and burst it open. Brother Richards parried the bayonets with his heavy cane.
Joseph reached out his hand and fired his six shots at the crowd, and wounded several mortally.
Hyrum, who was trying to brace against the door, received a shot in the face near the nose.

"I am a dead man," he cried, and fell.

Brother John Taylor received a shot, but fortunately it struck his watch, which saved his life.
These four were in the prison. Brother Taylor, however, received another shot and fell. Joseph
left the door, and sprang through the window, crying:

"O Lord, my God, is there no help for the widow's son!"

He fell pierced with several balls. The crowd then left the door and ran around to the windows.

Brother Richards covered Brother Taylor with a straw bed. Several shots were fired at the bed,
some of which cut his leg. Richards looked from the window on the scene, and several balls
passed through his clothing, but he received no injury.

After Joseph fell he was set up against the well-curb and shot again. A man named Boggs rolled
up his sleeves, and with a knife attempted to cut off his head. At this instant a flash of
light encircled the Prophet, and the man who was advancing to cut off his head fell back. They
were frightened, and fled.

Governor Ford was terror-stricken, as it endangered his life, he being without a guard, and
at the mercy of the Mormons, had they chosen to take advantage of him while he was in Nauvoo.
Governor Ford promised that he would see the murderers prosecuted. He gave the Mormons a company
of troops to bring their dead friends to Nauvoo.

The dead were placed in rough oak boxes and brought to the city. There were lamentation and
mourning among the people. Joseph was a man dearly loved by the Saints, and blessed with direct
revelation from God, and was an honorable, generous, high-minded man.

The remains of the Prophet and his brother were laid in a sepulcher made of stone. The oak
boards which had enclosed them were sawed in pieces and distributed among their friends, many
of whom had canes made of the pieces, with locks of the hair of the Prophet set in the top
of them, and those canes are kept as sacred relics to this day. But I must go back and speak
of the cause of their arrest.

While I was in Kentucky the printing press of Higbee & Foster was declared a nuisance, and
ordered destroyed. The owners refused to comply with the decision of the City Council, and
the Mayor directed that the press and type be destroyed, which was done. The owner of the grocery
where the press was, employed John Eagle, a professional bully, and others to defend it. As
the Danites entered, or attempted to enter, Eagle stood in the door and knocked three of them
down. As the third fell the Prophet struck Eagle under the ear and brought him sprawling to
the ground. He then crossed Eagle's hands and ordered them tied, saying that he could not see
his men knocked down while in the line of their duty without protecting them.

This raised the ire of Higbee, Foster, and others, and they got out writs for the arrest of
Joseph, and laid their grievances before the Governor. Joseph, knowing the consequences of
such a move, concluded to leave for the Rocky Mountains and lay out a country where the Saints
would not be molested. He crossed over into Iowa with a few faithful friends. These friends
begged him to return and stand his trial; saying that the Lord had always delivered him, and
would again. He told them that if he returned he would be killed, but if he went away he would
save his life and the Church would not be hurt; that he would look out a new country for them.
The Governor had advised him to do this.

Those old grannies then accused him of cowardice, and told him that Christ had said he would
never leave his brethren in trouble. He then asked them if his Emma wished him to return. They
answered:

"Yes."

Joseph then said it was all light before him, and darkness behind him, but he would return,
though he felt as a sheep led to the slaughter.

The following day he crossed the river into Illinois. He kissed his mother, and told her that
his time had come, and that he must seal his testimony with his blood. He advised his brother
Hyrum not to go with him, saying that he would be a comfort to the Church when he, the Prophet,
was no more. Hyrum said:

"No, my brother; I have been with you in life, and will be with you in death!"

The Prophet then called Brother Dunham and had some private talk with him, and then started
for the jail at Carthage. Dunham said that the Prophet requested him to take his Danites and
ambush them in a grove near Carthage, and watch the movements of the crowd; but Dunham dared
not go contrary to the orders of the Governor.

About this time the settlements on Bear Creek and at Great Plains had a difficulty with the
Gentiles, and the settlements were broken up and the settlers driven to Nauvoo. The Mormons
sought redress under the law. The sheriff tried to suppress the riot by a posse, but since
he could not get a posse from the Gentiles, he was obliged to summon them from the Mormons.
This made him unpopular, endangered his life, and rendered him powerless.

Governor Ford sought to bring to justice those who had assaulted the Prophet and Hyrum, but
public opinion was against him, and the mass of the people objecting, nothing was done. Certain
leaders in the horrid deed were members of the Legislature, and though the disturbance was
partially quelled, still the feeling of enmity continued to exist until the final breaking
up of the Church.

Before proceeding further, we must learn who was to be the successor of the Prophet and lead
the Church. It had been understood among the Saints that young Joseph was to succeed his father.
Joseph the Prophet had bestowed that right upon him by ordination, but he was too young at
that time to fill the office and discharge its solemn duties. Someone must fill the place until
he had grown to more mature age.

Sidney Rigdon set up his claim, he being the second counselor to the Prophet. Rigdon had a
few backers. A man by the name of Strong, who had been writing for the Prophet, put up his
claim to the office, by forging an appointment from Joseph. Time passed on until the whole
twelve had returned from their missions, and a conference was held, at which the several claimants
came forward with their demands.

Sidney Rigdon was the first who appeared upon the stand. He had been rather in the background
for some time previous to the death of the Prophet. He made but a weak claim. Strong did not
file any.

Just then Brigham arose and roared like a young lion, imitating the style and voice of Joseph
the Prophet. Many of the brethren declared that they saw the mantle of Joseph fall upon him.
I myself saw and heard a strong resemblance to the Prophet in him, and felt that he was the
man to lead us until Joseph's legal successor should grow up to manhood.

As soon as Brigham got the reins of government in his hands he swore that he would never suffer
an officer to serve a writ on or arrest him, as they had Joseph; that he would send them the
dark and gloomy road over which no traveler ever returned. He wished me to remove near to him,
as I was one of the Danites assigned to guard him. I had a good brick house and lot, all in
fine order, on Warsaw street. He told me to let him have my property on Warsaw street and he
would buy me a house on the flat, nearer his own. I did so, and he bought out Brother Frost,
and sent him on a mission to Kentucky, where I had been laboring. He had a nice little frame
house. I moved into it and had it finished on the inside and made comfortable.

Brigham at that time was living in a log house, but was preparing to build a brick house. I
renewed my labors on the Hall of the Seventies, and finished it in grand style. It was then
dedicated, and the different quorums had picnic parties in it, beginning with the first quorum,
consisting of seventy-seven men to each quorum. Brigham said this hall would be a building
creditable to London. He called upon me to organize the young men into quorums of Seventy,
and keep the records for them. He appointed me General Clerk and Recorder of the Seventies,
and through me were to be issued the licenses of the quorums. This was to be a compensation
for my services.

Joseph Young was the senior president over all the quorums. My burdens increased daily. I was
offered the position of senior president, I to select my six counselors and my Quorum of Seventy,
but I declined, as I did not want the responsibility. I held then all the offices I could fill.
Having finished the hall, I was offered, or rather given a mission, to build Joseph Young,
the head president of the Seventies, a neat brick dwelling. Calling upon the Seventies to assist
me, I soon mustered what help was necessary, and made brick enough to build me a large dwelling
house. Including my other buildings, it was ninety feet front, two and a half stories, high,
with a good cellar. By the middle of July, 1845, I had both houses, the one for Joseph Young
and the one for myself, finished, ready for painting.

During the winter of 1844-5 a man by the name of Stanley took up a school, teaching the use
of the broadsword. At the expiration of his term I opened three schools, of fifty scholars
each, in the same exercise. I gave thirteen lessons in each school, receiving two dollars from
each scholar. This made me six hundred dollars. I received twenty-five cents for each license
that I issued. With these means I purchased paints and oils to finish my dwelling house. I
became popular among the Saints, and many of them donated labor and materials for my dwelling
house. I had a handsome enclosure, with fine orchard, well of water, house finished and grained
from top to bottom, and everything in finest order. I was young, strong, and athletic. I could
drive ahead and work all day and stand guard half the night, through all kinds of weather.

My pay for doing the latter was the trust reposed in me. To guard the President and leading
men of the Church was considered a mighty thing, and would not have been exchanged by those
holding that office for ten dollars a night. It was considered that this would qualify ones
performing the duty for any position of honor or worth.

In 1845 I was present when two young men named Hodges were tried for murdering an old man and
his wife. The Hodges said that Brigham had sent them to rob the old people of their money,
of which they were supposed to have a large amount. When they went to the house they found
the inmates ready for them, and one of them was wounded. Thinking then that they would be detected,
they killed the old people.

One of the party became alarmed and reported on the two Hodges boys. Their older brother, Erwin
Hodges, said that Brigham had gotten his brothers into this scrape, and must get them out of
it; that if he did not do so his (Brigham's) blood would atone for it.

That evening, as Erwin was returning home, a little after dark, he was met by two Danites who
had been waiting for him to come along. After some little conversation, as Erwin was turning
he was struck on the head with a club, and then stabbed four times over the heart. The Danites
left, supposing him to be dead. He was, however, only stunned, and the bleeding revived him.
He crawled about one hundred and fifty yards, and fell near Brigham's gate. He called for water,
and for Brigham to lay his hands upon him.

Some persons asked him who had done the deed. He replied that they were his friends, and expired
without finishing the sentence. A neighbor came running to my house, knowing that Brigham was
there, as he often came there to keep away from suspicious persons. I started home with Brigham,
and while on the way remarked that it was a shocking affair. He replied that it was not worse
for Hodges to be killed than it would have been for him (Brigham) to have had his blood shed.
This answer recalled the threat that Erwin had made during the day, at the trial of his brothers.

Those men who had turned away from the Church were the most bitter enemies to Brigham, and
sought every opportunity to entrap him. They tried to ensnare him, and find an occasion to
arrest him with a warrant. This caused Brigham to lie hidden as much as possible.

In the meantime his Destroying Angels were diligently on the watch, and every suspicious man
was closely tracked up, and no strategy neglected to find out his business. If they suspected
that any man wanted to serve a writ on Brigham they never let that man escape. Sometimes they
would treat him with great kindness, and in that way decoy him to some out-of-the-way place,
and there "save" him, as it was called. The Danites were not only on the track of officers,
but all suspected characters who might come to spy out what was going on. I knew of many men
who were put out of the way.

If any Danite was caught in a scrape, it was the duty of the rest to unite and swear him out.
It was shown that the Gentiles had no right to administer an oath. The Danites might swear
a house full of lies to save one of the brethren.

Whatever the Danites were ordered to do, they were to do and ask no questions. Whether it was
right or wrong mattered not to them, they were responsible only to their leaders, amenable
only to God. I was one among them, into the secret of all they did; and they looked for me
to speak a good word for them with Brigham, as they were ambitious to please him and obtain
his blessing. The captain of the Danites never asked me to do anything he knew I was averse
to doing. Under Brigham, Hosea Stout was Chief.

The Danites buried a man in a lot near the Masonic Hall. They got him tight and some were joking
with him while others digged his grave. They asked him to go with them into a field of corn,
saying it was fully grown. They told him they had a jug of whisky cached out there. They led
him to his grave, and told him if he would get down into it, hand up the jug, he should have
the first drink. As he bent over to get down, Roswell Stevens struck him on the back of the
head and dropped him. They tightened a cord around his neck to shut off his wind, and then
covered him up and set the hill of corn back on his grave to cover any tracks that might lead
to discovery.

Another man they took in a boat, about two o'clock at night, for a ride. When out in the channel
of the river the Danite who sat behind him struck him upon the head and stunned him. They tied
a rope around his neck and a stone to the other end of the rope, and sent him to the bottom
of the Mississippi.

There was a man whose name I have forgotten, who was a great annoyance to the Saints at Nauvoo.
He generally brought a party with him when he came to the city, and would threaten them with
the law; but he always managed to get away safely. They (the Saints) finally concluded to entrust
his case to Howard Egan, a Danite who was thought to be long-headed. He took a party of Destroying
Angels and went to La Harp, a town near the residence of this man, and watched for an opportunity
when he would pass along. They "saved" him, and buried him in a washout at night. A short time
afterwards a thunder storm washed the earth away and exposed the remains.

The Danites also made an attempt to kill an old man and his son over on Bear River. Ebenezer
Richardson, an old tried Danite had charge of this mission. Four Danites went to the residence
of the old folks. Two of them asked for lodgings and refreshments. The old gentleman told them
he was not prepared to entertain them, and directed them to a neighbor who lived a mile away.
They insisted upon stopping, and said they were weary and would lie down upon their blankets.
The old man was suspicious of them and utterly refused to keep them.

They then went away and counseled over the matter, and concluded to wait until the family were
asleep, then burst in the door before they could have time to resist. The old man and his son,
being sure that the Danites had come for the purpose of "saving" them, were waiting their return.
Each of them had a gun.

Brother Richardson and his party waited until about midnight, when they slipped carefully to
the house and listened. All was still. Then Richardson and another burst in the door. As the
Danites were in the act of entering the house the old man and his son fired. Richardson's arm
was broken below the elbow; another Danite received a slight wound. The reception was overhot
and they backed water, glad to get away. Richardson later wore a cloak to conceal his broken arm.

These matters were kept a profound secret. I was in Brigham's office about this time. His brother
Joseph and quite a number of the others were present, when Brigham raised his hand and said:

"I swear by the eternal Heavens, and all good Mormons will do the same, that I have unsheathed
my sword, and will never return it until the blood of the Prophet Joseph, and Hyrum, and those
who were slain in Missouri, is avenged. This whole nation is guilty of shedding their blood,
by assenting to the deed and holding its peace. Now," said he, "betray me, any who dare do so!"

Everyone who passed through his endowments in the Temple was placed under the most sacred obligations
to avenge the blood of the Prophet, whenever opportunity offered, and teach their children
to do the same.

Once I heard Mother Smith, the mother of Joseph the Prophet, plead with Brigham, with tears,
not to rob young Joseph, her grandchild, of his birthright, which his father, the Prophet,
bestowed upon him previous to his death. Young Joseph should have succeeded his father as the
leader of the Church; it was his right in the line of the Priesthood.

"I know it," replied Brigham; "don't worry or take any trouble, Mother Smith; by so doing you
are only laying the knife to the throat of the child. If it be known that he is the rightful
successor of his father the enemies of the Priesthood will seek his life. He is too young to
lead his people now, but when he arrives at mature age he shall have his place. No one shall
rob him of it."

Brigham sought to establish himself as the leader of the Church. Many years, however, passed
away before he dared assume or claim to be the rightful successor of Joseph, the Seer, Prophet,
and Revelator to the Church. When the time arrived, according to Brigham's own words, for Joseph
to receive his own, Joseph came, but Brigham received him not. He said that Joseph lacked the
true spirit. Joseph's mother had married a Gentile lawyer, and had infused the Gentile spirit
into him. Joseph denied the doctrine of celestial marriage.

Brigham barred young Joseph from preaching in the Tabernacle, and raised a storm against him.
He took Joseph's cousin, George A. Smith, as his first counselor. This he did as a matter of
policy to prevent George A. from using his influence in favor of Joseph as the leader of the
people, which he otherwise would have done. He also ordained John Smith, the son of Hyrum the
Patriarch, to the office of Patriarch, and his brother, Joseph F. Smith, to the office of one
of the twelve apostles, thus securing their influence, telling them also that had young Joseph
been willing to act in harmony with them, the heads of the Church, he could have had his place,
but that he was too much of a Gentile to lead this people. Brigham said he had hopes that David,
a brother of young Joseph, when he became older, might occupy the place of his father, but
Joseph never would. Many families entered into covenants with each other - the man to stand
by his wife and the woman to cleave unto her husband, and the children to be adopted to the
parents. I was one of those who entered into covenants to stand by my family, to cleave to
them through time and eternity. I have kept my obligations sacred and inviolate to this day.

Others refused to enter into these obligations, but separated from each other, dividing their
substance, and mutually dissolving their former relations on friendly terms. Some agreed to
exchange wives by virtue and authority of the holy Priesthood. One of Brigham's brothers, Lorenzo
Young, now a bishop, made an exchange of wives with Brother Decker.

All people are aliens to the commonwealth of Israel until adopted into the Kingdom by baptism,
and their children born unto them before the baptism of the parents must be adopted to the
parents, and become heirs to the Kingdom only through the law of adoption. The children that
are born to parents after the baptism of the parents are legal heirs to the Kingdom.

This doctrine extends further. All persons must be adopted by some of the leading men of the
Church. In this, however, they have the right of choice, thus forming the links of the chain
of Priesthood back to the father, Adam, and to the second coming of the Messiah. Time will
not allow me to enter into the full details of this subject.

The ordinance of celestial marriage was practiced by men and women who had covenanted to live
together, and plural marriages are stepping-stones to celestial exaltation. Without plural
marriage a man cannot attain to the fullness of the holy Priesthood and be made equal to our
Saviour. Without it he can only attain to the position of the angels, who are servants and
messengers to those who attain to the Godhead. These inducements cause every true believer
to exert himself to attain that exalted position - both men and women. In many cases the women
do the "sparking," through the assistance of the first wife.

My second wife, Nancy Bean, was the daughter of a wealthy farmer who lived near Quincy, Illinois.
She saw me on a mission and heard me preach at her father's house. She came to Nauvoo and stayed
at my house three months, and grew in favor and was sealed to me in the winter of 1845. My
third and fourth wives were sealed to me soon afterward in my own house. My third wife, Louisa,
was then a young lady, gentle and beautiful, and we never had an angry word while she lived
with me. She and her sister Emeline were both under promise to be sealed to me.

One day Brigham saw Emeline and fell in love with her. He asked me to resign my claims in his
favor, which I did, though it caused a struggle in my mind to do so, for I loved her dearly.
I made known to Emeline Brigham's wish, and went to her father's house and used my influence
with her to induce her to become a member of Brigham's family. The two girls did not want to
separate from each other; however, they both met at my house at an appointed time, and Emeline
was sealed to Brigham, and Louisa was sealed to me. Brother Amasa Lyman officiated at the ceremony.

At the same time Sarah C. Williams, the girl that I baptized in Tennessee when but a child,
at the house of Brother William Pace, and who later came to Nauvoo, stood up and claimed a
place in my family. She is yet with me and is the mother of twelve children. She has been a
kind wife, mother, and companion.

By Louisa I had one son born, who died at the age of twelve. She only lived with me one year
after her babe was born. She then told me that her parents were not satisfied to have a daughter
sealed to the one highest in authority and the other below her. Their teasing caused us to
separate, not as enemies, however. Our friendship was never broken.

After we got to Salt Lake she offered to come back to me, but Brigham would not consent. Her
sister became a favorite with Brigham, and remained so until he met Sister Folsom, who captivated
him to such a degree that he neglected Emeline, and she died broken-hearted.

Plural marriages at first were not made public; they had to be kept still. A young man did
not know when he was talking to a single woman. As far as Brigham was concerned, he had no
wives at his house, except his first wife, or the one that he said was his first wife. Many
a night have I gone with him, arm in arm, and guarded him while he spent an hour or two with
his young brides, then guarded him home, and guarded his house until one o'clock, when I was
relieved. He used to meet his beloved Emeline at my house.

In the spring of 1845 Rachel Andora was sealed to me - the woman who has stood by me in all
my troubles. A truer woman was never born. She has been to me as true as I have been to Brigham,
and always tried to make my will her pleasure. I raised her in my family from five years of
age. She was a sister of my first wife. Her mother, Abigail Sheffer, was sealed to me for an
eternal state. The old lady has long since passed away, and entered into endless rest and joy.

But to resume the narrative of events at Nauvoo. In the year 1845 the building of the Temple
was progressing. Through the summer trouble was brewing among the Saints, both in Illinois
and Iowa. Many of my friends from Tennessee, and some from Kentucky, joined us during the summer
and fall, as well as numbers from other places. An effort was made to complete the Nauvoo House,
if possible, but finding the storm approaching too fast the work on the House was abandoned
and all hands put to work on the Temple. We were anxious to complete the Temple, in order that
we might receive our promised blessings in it before we commenced our pilgrimage across the
plains in search of a home, we knew not where.

Our time was limited, and our Gentile friends who surrounded us, and whose ire had been aroused
to the highest pitch, were not likely to allow us to remain longer than the appointed space.
The killing of the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum had led to other acts of violence, and many Mormons
whose houses were burned and property destroyed, and who had come to Nauvoo for protection
and shelter, retaliated by driving in Gentile stock from the range to subsist upon. No doubt
the stock of many an innocent Gentile was driven away, and this served to brew trouble. Thus
things went from bad to worse while the saints remained at Nauvoo.

Much of the trouble that came upon the Church was brought down through the folly of the Saints.
A company was organized called the "Whittlers." They had long knives, and when a stranger came
to town they would gather around him and whittle, none of them saying a word, no matter what
question was asked. They would watch any stranger, gathering close to him, until they ran him
out of town.

During the fall of 1845 companies were formed to make wagons for the contemplated move, as
many of the Saints were poor and had neither wagons nor teams. Teams - with Gentile horses
loose on the range - were more easily obtained than wagons. People traded off their lots and
personal property for outfits. Many of the wagons had wooden hoops in place of tires, though
iron and everything else was at the lowest price. Common labor was only twenty-five cents per
day, but money was hard to get.

About the 1st of December, 1845, we commenced filling up the Temple rooms for giving endowments.
I assisted in putting up the stoves, curtains, and other things. It was about fifteen days
before we got everything ready. I must mention that when the doctrine of baptizing for the
dead was first introduced the families met together, down by the riverside, and one of their
number, of the order of the Melchisedek Priesthood, officiated. They were baptized in behalf
of all the dead friends they could remember, the men for men, and the women for women. But
when the fount was ready in the Temple, which rested on the twelve carved oxen, they went and
were baptized in it, after the same order, except that a clerk must make a record of it, and
two witnesses must be present, and the name of the person baptized and for whom he or she was
baptized, and the date of baptism, together with the name of the officiating elder and those
of the clerk and witnesses must be entered in the record. All who are baptized must also be
confirmed. Men and women alike pass through the same ceremony, and the fact is entered in the
record kept for that purpose.

This is done for all who have died without the knowledge of the gospel. As Jesus, while His
body lay in the tomb, preached to the spirits in the spirit world the doctrine of his gospel
to all who had died before hearing it since the days of Noah, so through baptism for the dead
can our friends, and those who have gone before us, be made partakers of this new and last
gospel sent to us, and receive its blessings and eternal reward.

No person, however, is allowed the privilege of this baptismal fount, or his washings or anointings,
unless he has paid his tithings and has a certificate to that effect. In many cases, also,
where men require it, just debts must be settled before one is permitted to be baptized, washed,
or anointed.

In the Endowment a list is made out the day previous, of those who are to take their endowments.
Every person is required to wash himself clean, from head to foot. Also to prepare and bring
a good supply of food, of the best quality, for themselves and those who labor in the house
of the Lord. About twenty-five persons are required in the different departments to attend
to the washing, anointing, blessing, ordaining, and sealing. From twenty-five to fifty persons
are passed through in twenty-four hours. I was among the first to receive my washings and anointings,
and even received my second anointing, which made me an equal of the Priesthood, with right
and authority to build up the Kingdom in all the earth and power to fill any vacancy that might
occur. I have officiated in all the different branches, from the highest to the lowest.

There were about forty men who attained to that rank in the Priesthood, including the twelve
apostles and Brigham, and to them was intrusted the keeping of the records. I was the head
clerk; Brother Richards was my assistant clerk. My office was in room number one, of Brigham's
apartments. I kept a record of the sealings, anointings, marriages, and adoptions.

Also, I was the second son adopted of Brigham. I should have been his first adopted son, being
the first who proposed it to him, but, ever ready to give preference to those in authority,
I placed Brother Rockwood's name first on the list. I had also had my children adopted to me
in the Temple. Brigham had his children adopted to himself, and we were the only ones, to my
knowledge, that had our children so adopted in the Temple of Nauvoo.

Officers were on the alert to arrest Brigham. He often hid in the different apartments of the
Temple. One day about sunset an officer, knowing that he was in the Temple, waited for him
to come out. Brigham's carriage was standing at the door.

Brigham threw his cloak around Brother Miller, who resembled Brigham in build and stature,
and sent him to the carriage with Grant, his driver. As they got to the carnage Grant said
to Miller:

"Brother Young, are you ready to go?" As he spoke to him, the officer said:

"Mr. Young, I have a writ for you. I want you to go with me to Carthage, twenty miles distant."

"Shall I take my carriage?" Miller rejoined.

"You may, if you choose, and I will pay the bill," the officer answered.

Grant then drove Miller to Carthage, and the marshal took him to the hotel and supplied him
with refreshments. After supper an apostate Mormon called to see him. When he beheld Miller
he said to the marshal:

"By heavens! you are sold this time. That is not Brigham; that is Miller."

The marshal was a deal nettled, and, turning, he said to Miller:

"I am much obliged to you."

"You are quite welcome. I hope you will pay my bill as you agreed to do."

"Why did you deceive me?"

"I did not," replied Miller; "you deceived yourself. I said nothing to deceive you."

"All right," replied the marshal, "I will settle your bill, and you may return in the morning,
if you choose."

This gave Brigham to understand that it was time for him to get away; many such tricks would
not be wholesome.

In the Temple I took three wives - Martha Berry, Polly Ann Workman, and Delithea Morris, and
had my family sealed to me over the altar in the Temple, and six of them received their second
anointings - that is, the first six wives did, but the last three there was not time to attend to.

On the 10th of February, 1846, Brigham and a small company crossed the Mississippi River, on
the ice, into Iowa, and formed an encampment on a stream called Sugar Creek. I crossed, with
two wagons, with the first company. Brigham did this in order to elude the officers, and aimed
to wait there until all who could fit themselves out should join him. Such as were in danger
of being arrested were helped away first.

Our Danites crossed over to guard Brigham. Those who were not liable to be arrested remained
behind and sent their teams forward. I took one of Brigham's wives, Emeline, in the first of
the wagons, with Louisa, her sister, as far as Rainsville. All of Brigham's wives, except the
first, were taken by the brethren, as he did not at that time have the teams or the means to
convey his family across the plains, but was dependent on the brethren for help, though he
had used every means in his power to raise an outfit.

Brigham called a council of the leading men. Among them was Brother Joseph L. Heywood and myself.
Heywood was a merchant at Quincy, Illinois, doing a fair business before he joined the Mormon
Church, and was considered an honorable man. When the Mormons were driven from Missouri many
had occasion to bless him for his kindness to them in their hour of trouble.

At the council, after some conversation upon our present move, Brigham proposed to appoint
a committee of men, against whom no charges could be brought, to return to Nauvoo and attend
to selling the property of the Saints, and see to fitting out the people and starting them
forward. He proposed that I, with Brothers Babbitt, Heywood, and Fulmer be that committee.
Brother Heywood was asked to turn over his whole stock of goods to fit out Brigham and the
apostles for their journey.

This to Brother Heywood was a stunner. He replied that he was indebted to honorable men in
the East for the most of his goods, and that he did not dare defraud them; that he had been
taught from childhood to deal honorably with all men. He was told by Brigham that he might
take the money to pay his Eastern creditors from the sales of the Mormon property at Nauvoo.
This Brother Heywood thought a doubtful method, as the property of the deserted city would
not be very valuable.

Brigham then said that this was a case of emergency, and they must have the goods; that Brother
Heywood could write to his creditors and tell them that, owing to the trouble among the people,
business had fallen off, and he was not able to pay them then, but would in the future. Brigham
told him if he failed to raise money from the sale of city property, as soon as the Church
was established he (Brigham) would raise the money for him to satisfy his creditors, and this
would give him more influence than ever among the outside world. They finally persuaded Brother
Heywood to turn over his goods.

For my services to the leading men I never received a dollar. I have managed, however, to maintain
my family in good style, to pay my tithing and live independently of help from the Church.
I was called a shrewd trader, a keen financier, and had plenty. I always had money on hand.
These were considered by Brigham noble traits in my character.

CHAPTER XV - THE SAINTS TURN WESTWARD

Only a few words in regard to the Prophet Joseph. He was tried twenty-one times for different
offenses, and acquitted each time. Once when he was visiting in Peoria he was captured by four
men from Missouri, who started with him in a wagon to take him to that State. Two sat beside
him with cocked pistols, punching him in the side occasionally, and telling him that if he
opened his mouth they would blow his brains out. He was not arrested by any process of law,
but they were trying to kidnap him. Brother Markham, an old friend of Joseph, ran ahead to
the town of Peoria, employed a lawyer, got out a writ of habeas corpus, and had him set at liberty.

When the news reached Nauvoo the Saints were in the wildest state of excitement. The Mormon
steamer was crowded with Danites, and sent full steam ahead to Peoria to rescue the Prophet.
When the Danites arrived they found him at liberty. This was in 1843.

The same winter Joseph organized what was called the "Council of Fifty." This was a confidential
organition. A man by the name of Jackson belonged to it, though he did not belong to the Church.

As a man, Joseph tried to be a law-abiding citizen, but he had to manage those who were constantly
doing something to bring trouble upon themselves. He often reproved them and some he dis- fellowshipped.
But being of a forgiving disposition, when they came back to him and begged forgiveness his
humane heart could not refuse them. He was often basely imposed upon.

Joseph's sympathies were quick. Once I was standing with him, watching a couple of men who
were crossing the river in a canoe. The river was full of ice, running swiftly. As they neared
the shore the canoe upset, throwing them into the river. One of them got on a cake of ice,
but the other made several attempts before he could do so. Joseph sent a runner to them with
a bottle of whisky, saying:

"Those poor boys must be nearly frozen."

Joseph also had a sharp tongue. On one occasion, the 4th of July, 1843, at a celebration, a
number of toasts had been offered when someone said:

"Brother Joseph, suppose you give us a toast."

To return to our expedition across the plains. The snow lay about eight inches deep when the
first company crossed the river. The plan was this: We must leave Nauvoo, whether ready or
not. All covenanted to help each other, until every one was away that wanted to go. The teams
and wagons sent to help others away were to return as soon as a suitable place was found at
which to make a settlement, and leave the poor, or rather those who had no teams to go on with.
I was unwilling to start with a part of my family, leaving the rest behind, and thought that
now was the time to get them out before worse trouble commenced. I went into Brigham's tent
and told him what I thought of the matter, and that I could fit up teams in a few days and
bring them all away. He replied that he had been thinking of the same thing. Said he:

"Go; I will give you five days in which to sell out and cross the river again, and bring me
one hundred dollars in gold."

My first wife was still at Nauvoo. I had the confidence of my family, as I never undertook
anything that I did not carry out. I started back on foot and crossed the river on the ice.
I fell in with acquaintances about La Harpe, who were in trouble over a number of wagons and
teams which they had purchased in the State. The devil was to pay generally. Some of the Gentiles
who had lost cattle laid it to the Mormons in Nauvoo, and were determined to take cattle from
the Mormons until they got even. I had a brick house and lot on Parley street that I sold for
three hundred dollars in teams. I told the purchaser that I would take seven wagons and teams,
and before I went to sleep that night I had my entire outfit of teams.

For my large house, costing eight thousand dollars (in Salt Lake City it would have been worth
fifty thousand dollars), I was offered eight hundred dollars. My fanaticism would not allow
me to take so meager a sum for it. I locked it up, selling only one stove out of it, for which
I received eight yards of cloth. The building, with its twenty-seven rooms, I turned over to
the committee, to be sold to help the poor away. The committee afterwards parted with the house
for twelve dollars and fifty cents.

One day I was sitting with my family, telling them that I ought to get five hundred dollars
in some way, but the Lord had opened no way by which I could get it, and I had but five days
to get out of Nauvoo. In an adjoining room was an old gentleman and his daughter who rented
the room of me. They were from Pennsylvania, and the old gentleman was wealthy. The daughter
stepped into her father's room, and soon returned, saying that he wished to see me. I went
into his room. He gave me a seat and said:

"You did me a kindness that I have not repaid. Do you remember meeting me, when coming from
the Temple? I had been there with my wife and only child to get my washings and anointings.
I was not admitted, because I was a stranger, and no one to vouch for me. I was returning with
a heavy heart, when I met you. You returned with me and used your influence, vouched for us
and procured our admittance. I obtained our endowments. I had a cancer on my breast at that
time that was considered incurable. From the hour I received my endowments it has never pained
me and is healing up. I am thankful I have it in my power to do you a little favor in return."

So saying, he lifted the lid of a box and counted out five hundred dollars in gold coin, saying
that if it would help me I was welcome to it. I offered him a team, but he said he had money
enough to buy his outfit and support him while he lived, and that he felt grateful for an opportunity
of returning my favor. This was to me an unexpected blessing from an honest heart. I wept with
joyful gratitude; I had the means that I desired in my hands.

The next morning I received my teams and wagons. All had to be fitted up for the journey. My
family went to work making tents and articles needful for the journey. I sent my wagons to
the Mormon wagonshop and told the men to work night and day, and put them in order within three
days, and I would give them fifty dollars in gold, which was five dollars for a day and night's
work, quite a difference from fifty cents, the usual price. They went to work in earnest, and
as fast as a wagon was rolled out finished I had it loaded.

In the meantime Brother Babbitt was urging me to cross the river, as there was an officer in
town looking for me. On the third day I started one of my ox teams across the river on the
ice, and came near losing the whole outfit, by its breaking through. I crossed no more teams
that way. I got a large wood boat, with twenty-five men to help me, and cut through the ice
across the river, so that the boat could be towed over. On the fourth day I had all of my effects
at the riverside.

The day before, when I crossed the team that broke through the ice, I met the officer, to whom
I was unknown, at the riverside looking for me. He purposed to arrest me on the charge of having
more wives than one. I told him I had seen Mr. Lee crossing the river the day before, and that
one of his oxen broke through; I added that it was a pity Mr. Lee had not broken through also.
I stepped into a saloon with the officer and we took a drink together. I then went with him
into the wagonshop, and, stepping ahead of him and tipping the wink to the men there, said:

"Have any of you seen Mr. Lee to-day? Here is an officer looking for him."

They replied that he had crossed the river the day before. This satisfied the officer, and
he went away. I bought oils and paints for my wagons, and five gallons of whisky with which
to treat the boys who had helped me over the river.

As we left the river a heavy storm came up. It was so dark I could see nothing. I had four
mule teams, and let them follow the road. We halted about a mile beyond the town of Montrose,
and a man who lived there, named Hickenlooper, took us in and attended to the animals. I went
to sleep and did not wake until ten o'clock the next morning. This man had all the supplies
we needed, - flour, bacon, etc., - and I purchased my store of supplies from him. I learned
that the company had moved on, and was camped at a place called Richardson Point, forty-five
miles from Montrose.

Before reaching the encampment I was met by Brigham, H. C. Kimball, and Dr. William Richards
in their carriages, who bade me welcome. After we reached camp a council was held, and I reported
my success, and gave ah account of my mission. When I had finished Brigham asked me if I had
brought him the hundred dollars. I replied that I had, and handed it to him. He counted it,
and then said:

"What shall I do with it?"

"Feed and help the poor," I replied.

Brigham then prophesied, saying I should be blessed, and means come unto me from an unexpected
source; that in time of need friends would be sent to my assistance.

The roads were in bad condition, and we lay quiet a few days, during which time I painted and
numbered my wagons. Myself, Geo. S. Clark, Levi Stewart, and another man were appointed hunters,
as there was much game in the country we had to pass through - turkey, deer, and some elk.

From here we traveled to the Raccoon Fork of Grand River, about seventy-five miles. At the
three forks of the Grand River we came to a halt. In fact, the rain had made the country impassable,
and our provisions were running short. Here we found some wild hogs, and the men killed several.
Brigham said they were some of our hogs that had become scattered when we were driven out of
Missouri. This was license for us to kill anything we could find.

While we lay here two men came to our camp, named Allen Miller and Mr. Clancy. They were traders
to the Potowatomie Indians. Allen Miller later married one of my wives. They informed me that
we could get everything we needed fifty miles from there, near Grand River. We unloaded seventeen
wagons and selected such articles as we could spare. I was appointed Commissary, to do the
purchasing for the companies. This was in April, 1846.

We started with the seventeen wagons, and drove to Miller's and made that place headquarters,
as he had provisions in abundance. The grass was like a meadow. I had some horses and harness
to exchange for oxen and cows. When we had turned out our stock for the day at Miller's Mr.
Clancy invited me home with him.

On entering his house I found his partner, Patrick Dorsey, an Irishman, sick. Mr. Dorsey had
been tormented with a pain in his eyes, insomuch that he had rested neither day nor night,
and was losing his sight. I asked him if he was a Catholic. He answered that he was. I knew
their faith, as I was raised a Catholic and once believed in their doctrines. I asked him if
he wished me to pray for him. He inquired if I was a minister, to which I replied that I was.

"Do pray with me, for I am in great distress," he then said.

With that I laid my hands upon his head, and asked the Father, in the name of the Son, and
by virtue of the holy Priesthood in me vested, to stay his sufferings and heal him. The pain
left him instantly. He took his hat and walked with me to Miller's house. They were astonished
to see him without pain, and asked him what I had done for him. He answered:

"I was in distress; a stranger laid hands upon my head and prayed and made me whole; but who
he is, or whence he came, I know not. But this I know, that I was almost blind, and now I see;
I was sick, but am well."

This occurrence created an excitement in the settlement, and nothing would do but I must preach
the next evening.

During the day I made several trades. Evening came, and I preached at my friend Miller's. When
I had closed my sermon they made me up a purse of five dollars, and offered to load one of
our wagons with provisions.

We remained about a week and did finely in trading. On Sunday a large attendance, for a new
country, turned out to hear me preach. I was weary and did not feel like preaching. However,
I talked about an hour and a half. At the close of the service they made up ten dollars for
me, and Mr. Scott, a wealthy farmer, said that if I would drive my wagons to his establishment
he would fill them with flour, bacon, and potatoes. I had the use of my friend Miller's store
to warehouse our traps, as I had more than we could take away. The people were anxious for
me to remain and take up a farm, make my home with them, and preach and build up a church.
I told them I was bound for the Rocky Mountains.

As for Mr. Dorsey, he offered me all he had, and wanted to know what to do to be saved. He
gave me a history of his life. He told me that he led a company of men from Carroll County,
Missouri, when we were driven from the State. I reflected a little, and gave him a list of
city property at Nauvoo that I would turn over to him at one-fourth its value for what property
he would turn out to me. He said he had twelve yoke of oxen and twenty-five cows, besides other
stock; four bee stands, three wagons, six to eight hundred dollars' worth of bacon, flour,
meal, soap, powder, lead, blankets, thirty rifles, guns, knives, tobacco, calicos, spades,
hoes, plows, and harrows; also twelve feather beds, and all of his improvements. He said he
only wanted his carriage and a span of black horses to take himself, wife, and partner to Nauvoo.
And all the above property he would turn over to me, and I might give him deeds to property
in Nauvoo.

Brigham commenced making a settlement at the place where he was camped. He called the place
Garden Grove. We returned to camp, laden with all that our teams could haul, besides the three
wagons I had from Dorsey. There was a deal that we could not move away. I took a forty-gallon
cask of honey and a quantity of whisky and brandy from Dorsey. The bee stands, improvements,
and farming utensils I turned over for the use of what settlers remained behind at Garden Grove.
I also made arrangements for the labor needed by the company that was left, so that they might
be planting crops and raising supplies while building houses to live in.

All the borrowed teams were returned to Nauvoo to bring others forward, while those who had
teams of their own pushed on and made another settlement called Pisgah, and then went forward
to Council Bluffs - afterwards called Kanesville, in honor of Col. Thomas L. Kane. From this
point I took a cargo of traps, consisting of feather beds, fine counterpanes, quilts, and such
goods, and went down to Missouri, with a number of wagons, to obtain supplies, together with
beef cattle and cows.

During my absence a call was made on the Mormons for five hundred men to go to Mexico and defend
the American flag. Col. Ethan Allen and Thos. L. Kane began to raise the required number of
men. An express was sent to Pisgah and Garden Grove asking them to furnish their number. The
ranks were nearly full before I reached camp. Upon my arrival Dr. Richards said to me:

"I am glad you have returned. We want you for one of the captains."

"All right," I answered.

Brigham called me and said he could not spare me; that there were men enough to fill the bill
without me. The battalion was filled, and Col. Allen, a United States officer, marched with
them to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.

From Council Bluffs I returned to Missouri, to buy a drove of cattle for Brigham, Dr. Richards,
and others, they having received money from England. I loaded twenty wagons with provisions
and articles for trade and exchange. I exchanged horses for oxen, as the latter were low and
the former high in price. About the middle of August I returned with over five hundred head
of cattle.

While I was gone the camp moved across the Missouri River, to a place called Cutler's Park.
The cattle swam the river, but the provision train was still on the Iowa side. Grant and some
of Brigham's men, teamsters and waiters, crossed back for a couple of loads of provisions for
Brigham. Without saying a word to me they took from my train their supply of provisions.

When I heard of it I was ruffled, as this train was in my charge and I was responsible for
it. I went to Grant, who seemed to be the leader, and told him he had not acted the gentleman
in interfering with what did not belong to him. We had warm words, and had not others interfered
would have come to blows. He justified himself by saying that Brigham sent him. I told him
I did not care who sent him - there was a right way and a wrong way of doing things. The feeling
grew bitter between us, and he accused me of doing wrongful acts in my office.

Finally Brigham called us together in the presence of the twelve apostles, and we made our
statements. My accusers said what they had to say, and then I replied. When Brigham had heard
our statements he scolded my accusers sharply, and approved of what I had done. He then said
that we must not have ill-feeling, and directed us to shake hands and be friends. I was the
first that arose to comply. We shook hands; still, though we agreed to drop the matter, the
old spirit lingered, even after we had crossed the plains.

CHAPTER XVI - LEE GOES TO SANTA FE

We got into camp the next day. After striking camp I noticed that a tire was gone from one
of the wagons. A few days afterwards the mother of my first wife went down to a stream near
by and caught a number of fine fish; on her way back to the camp she found the missing tire.
It had rolled nearly three hundred yards from the road, and was lying where it stopped.

The people began cutting hay and stacking it, so as to be prepared for feeding our stock during
the winter.

One night, in the latter part of September, I dreamed that Lieut. James Pace, of Company E,
Mormon Battalion, then on its way to New Mexico, stood at my tent door, and said Col. Allen,
commanding the Mormon battalion, was dead. I saw him plainly in my dream; after he gave the
information he started back to his camp, and later a man, who always kept his back towards
me, went from our encampment with him. I saw him and his companion, and all they did on their
way back to Santa Fe, their dangers from the Indians, and all that took place. From first to
last in my vision the comrade of Pace kept his back my way. Pace's companion, as affairs turned
out, was myself.

The next evening I went, as was usual, with Brigham and Dr. Willard Richardson, the Church
historian, to attend a Council at Heber C Kimball's camp. After the meeting was over and we
were going back to our tents I said to Brigham:

"We will find Lieut. Pace at my tent when we get there."

"How do you know that?" said he. I then told him my dream, and we walked on.

When we got in sight of the tent there stood Lieut. James Pace, just as I had seen him in my
dream. This did not surprise me, for I knew he would come. Brigham said:

"What on earth has brought you back?" He replied:

"Col. Allen is dead. The battalion is without a commander, and I have returned by order of
the officers to report to you, and ask you who shall now lead us."

"Why did you not elect one of your captains?" said Brigham.

"The officers prefer to let Col. Smith, of the United States army, lead us, if you will consent
to it. But some of our men object, so I came for orders from you."

The matter was taken under advisement by Brigham until next morning. In the morning he came
to me in my tent and said:

"John, how would you like to go back with Brother Pace and get the remittances of the soldiers?"
I said:

"My family is large, I have no houses for them; they are without provisions, and I have no
means to shelter them from the winter storms. I have not hay cut to feed my stock through the
winter. I must attend to keeping my stock in order or I will have nothing left to take me and
my family over the plains next spring. But," said I, "there is no one more willing to sacrifice
himself and his own interests for the benefit of the Church than I am."

Brigham waited and heard me through; then he said:

"Thus sayeth the Lord. You shall go, my son. Prosperity shall attend you during your absence,
and you shall return in safety; not a hair of your head shall be hurt."

"It is enough to know your will; I will go. But who will take care of my family in my absence?"

"I will see to your family, and attend to all you are interested in during your absence," said
Brigham.

At that, I was satisfied, and proceeded to carry out Brigham's will. I had cut considerable
hay in company with the brethren, but as it had to be divided, I felt sure I would not have
much to my share, especially after I had divided with the lazy poor. I never went much on this
copartnership system of labor. There are always a number who will not work, and yet they are
always present when there is a division to be made of the proceeds of the labor.

Joseph the Prophet classed the poor into three divisions. He said:

"There are three kinds of poor. The Lord's poor, the devil's poor, and the poor devils." I
never objected to share with the Lord's poor, but when it came to dividing with the devil's
poor and the poor devils, it was more than I desired; it took away the profits.

My outfit for the intended journey to Santa Fe consisted of a snug light wagon, a span of good
mules, a spyglass, and such guns and traps as a man needs on the plains. I also took Dr. Willard's
dog with me to watch while I was asleep. I was ordered to keep my business secret from everyone,
for fear of being robbed on my return home. I was not allowed to even tell my wives where I
was going, or how long I would be gone. I went to St. Joseph, Missouri, and put up at John
Green's, and stayed while fitting out for the trip.

While there I met Luke Johnson, one of the witnesses to the Book of Mormon. I had a curiosity
to talk with him concerning the same. We took a walk on the river bank. I asked him if the
statement he had signed as to seeing the angel and the plates was true, and whether he did
see the plates from which the Book of Mormon was printed or translated. He declared it to be
true. I then said:

"How is it you have left the Church? If the angel appeared to you, and you saw the plates,
how can you live out of the Church? I understand that you were one of the twelve apostles at
the first organization of the Church?"

"I was of the twelve," said he; "I have not denied the truth of the Book of Mormon. I and several
others were overtaken in a fault at Kirtland, Ohio - Wm. Smith, Oliver Cowdrey, one or two
others, and myself. We were brought up for the offense before the Church authorities. Sidney
Rigdon and Wm. Smith were excused, and the matter hushed up. But Cowdrey and myself were proceeded
against and our choice given us between making a public confession or being dropped from the
Church. I refused to make the public confession unless Rigdon and Smith did the same. The authorities
said that that would not do, for Rigdon was counselor to the Prophet, and Wm. Smith the brother
of the Prophet, and also one of the twelve; but that if Cowdrey and I confessed, it would be
a cloak for the other two. I considered this unjust and unfair. I left the Church for that
reason. But I have reflected much since that time, and have come to the conclusion that each
man is accountable for his own sins; also that the course I have been pursuing injures me alone,
and I intend to visit the Saints and again ask to be admitted into the Church. Rigdon has gone
to destruction, and Wm. Smith is not much better off to-day than I am."

This conversation was a comfort to me.

We went to Fort Leavenworth, where we learned that Col. Smith had taken command of the battalion
and marched away with it. Lieut. Pace got another good horse here, and what oats and provisions
we needed. We then struck out after the command.

We overtook the battalion on the Arkansas River about fifty miles below Bent's Fort. Our brethren
were rejoiced to see us. Many had grievances to relate, and all had much to tell and inquire
about. That morning they had buried one of the battalion named Phelps. The men said his death
was caused by arsenic which the doctor had forced him to take. They claimed that Colonel Smith
was a tyrant - that he was not the man that Col. Allen had been. The command was on the march
when we came up with it. There was a fifty-mile desert before us, and little water on the route.

Col. Allen had allowed the men to pray with and for each other when sick and had not compelled
them to take medicine when they did not want it. But Col. Smith deprived them of their religious
rights and made them obey the doctor's orders at all times. The doctor examined the sick every
morning and made them take medicine. When they refused to take it they were compelled to walk;
if unable to walk and keep up with the others they were tied to the wagons like animals. The
doctor was called "Death"; he was known to all by that name.

While traveling along, Capt. Hunt, of Company A, introduced Col. Smith to me. I invited them
to ride in my wagon. They got in, and I soon brought up the subject of the treatment of the
troops adopted by Col. Allen, and spoke of its good influence over them. I said the men loved
Col. Allen, and would have died for him, because he respected their religious rights. I said
they were volunteers, and not regular troops; that they were not used to military discipline,
and felt that they were oppressed. They had lost confidence in their officers. I referred to
the ill- treatment of the men, and talked freely.

Capt. Hunt got angry and jumped from the wagon. He said that I talked like an insane man rather
than a man of sense. The Colonel said that he was willing to give up the command to the choice
of the battalion. I said he had better keep it until we arrived at Santa Fe, but for his own
sake to ease up on the boys.

That evening Capt. Hunt sent a delegation to inform me that I was inciting the command to mutiny,
and must stop or he would have me under arrest. I asked where he was going to find his men
to put me under guard - that he could not locate them in that command, and if he doubted my
word he had better try. The Captain knew I was right, and the matter ended. I told the Colonel
I would encourage the men to obedience until we reached Santa Fe. The troops were better treated
after that.

On the march water was scarce; I saw a man offer sixteen dollars for a coffeepot of water on
the desert. I walked most of the time, and let the sick ride in my wagon. When we reached the
Spanish settlements we got water, pepper, onions, corn, sheep, goats, and other articles of food.

We reached Santa Fe in the midst of a snow storm. All the Mormons were pleased to find that
honest Missourian, Col. Doniphan, in command at that place. He had a humane nature. The sick
and disabled men of the battalion were sent to a Spanish town called Taos, under charge of
Capt. Brant, for care and rest.

Soon after reaching Santa Fe Col. Philip St. John Cook took command of the battalion. The soldiers
were paid off, and Howard Egan, who had accompanied me, was given one-half the checks and money
donated by the soldiers for Brigham and Heber C. Kimball, and the remainder was given to me
to carry back to winter quarters. I remained in camp ten days to recruit my mules, because
I could not purchase any there. The army had taken everything.

Lieut. Gully desired to return with me, and it was necessary to obtain permission for him to
resign before he could do so. I went to the commander, stated the situation to him, and asked
that Lieut. Gully be permitted to resign. The commander granted my request. The Lieutenant
had been acting Commissary of Subsistence, and had to make up his papers before he could start.
I waited until he was ready to go with me. I also took Russell Stevens with me, as he had been
discharged on account of ill health.

While thus waiting I was troubled with Egan, for he got drunk every day, and I feared he would
be robbed. I had Stevens watch him most of the time. By closely guarding him I kept him and
the money safe. Col. Doniphan said I should have a guard to protect us through the Indian country,
but animals could not be procured. I took the necessary trouble and got as good a team as I
could to start back with. With the consent of the commander I bought a large mule, which after
much trouble was able to work with one of my own.

While we were in camp at Santa Fe the doctor was robbed. His trunk was stolen, carried out
of camp, and broken open. Two gold watches and some money were taken from it. Two mules were
also stolen the same night. I knew nothing of this, nor who did it, until long afterwards.
After we had started for home, Stevens suddenly brought in the mules. He brought them to camp
and said they were his. Stevens and Egan robbed the doctor, but they never acknowledged it to me.

About the 11th of October, 1846, we started for home over a wilderness twelve hundred miles
wide, every foot of it infested with Indians. We camped in the mountains at Gold Springs, where
little particles of gold can be seen on the bottom of the streams. Egan and Stevens did not
join us until we were fifty miles from Santa Fe. They had the doctor's mules and a Spanish
horse with them when they came up.

When we had traveled ninety miles I discovered that my mules were failing. The little flesh
that was on them was soft and would not last, for we had not fed them any grain. It is difficult
to recruit mules on the desert grass, for it is very short generally, and the immense herds
of buffalo ranging over the country keep the grass short. At the last Spanish town we passed
through I sent Egan to buy a span of mules. That night Egan and Stevens came to camp with two
miserable little beasts. I said:

"What on earth have you brought those poor brutes for?"

"We cabbaged them; it was the best we could do," said Egan.

Then I told him that I was on a mission of duty, and trusted in God, and I would not permit
him to bring stolen animals to the camp. I sent him back with the mules at once.

"My trust is in God, and not in the devil. We shall go on, while you take back the mules, and
leave them where you got them."

At Moro Station, on the Las Animas, the last camp we would find until we reached the eastern
edge of the plains, we found a large, fat mule that belonged to the Government. Lieut. Gully
gave the station keeper, a young man, a receipt for the mule, and we took it with us, as we
were, in one sense, in Government employ. We were carrying a mail, and on general business
for the Government. This was a fine, gentle mule. I called her Friendship. When the other animals
grew weak I fastened the doubletree to the axle, and thus Friendship alone hauled the wagon
fully three hundred miles.

At the Cimmaron Springs we met a company of traders from St. Louis, with a train of thirty-eight
wagons. One of their wagons was loaded with pitch-pine wood for cooking purposes. It was raining,
and a regular plains storm was coming on. These storms are sometimes tremendously destructive.
A train had been overtaken at this same place the year before, and nearly all of the animals
perished. I counted one hundred and ninety skeletons of mules that had died in that storm.
Many of the men also died. The storm took place ten days earlier in the season than did the
one which then threatened us.

We were invited to his camp by the captain; the others went, but I stayed in my wagon to write
up an account of the trip, which I was obliged to keep by order of Brigham. Capt. Smith came
to my wagon and gave me a drink of fine brandy. He invited us to take supper and breakfast
with him, which we did. He asked me if I was not afraid to travel with so small a company,
and said the Indians were on the warpath, committing depredations all along the road; that
he had a large train, yet did not consider himself safe. I answered:

"My trust is in God, not in numbers."

This led to a conversation on religious subjects. When I told him who I was, and stated my
belief to him, he was much interested in the Mormon doctrine. At supper he gave us everything
to eat that could be desired. The Captain put up a large tent over my wagon to protect it from
the storm and wind.

The next morning the storm was over and we made an early start. The Captain gave me a cheese,
a sack of butter crackers, sardines, and many other matters which were of value to us on our
journey over the plains. He also gave me his name, age, and place of residence in St. Louis,
writing it in a little blank book which he presented me. He then gave me five dollars in gold,
shook hands, and said:

"Remember me in coming days," and we parted.

At the Cimmaron crossing of the Arkansas River we met several companies of Missouri troops.
They informed us that Capt. Mann, with three companies, had been attacked by a body of Southern
Pawnee and Cheyenne Indians; that the troops were defeated and lost seven killed, with a number
wounded; that three of the men had come for help; that Capt. Mann had lost all of his animals
except the three that the messengers escaped with; that the men only had a small supply of
ammunition, and shot it all away before they retreated. Reinforcements had gone to their assistance
and would bring in the command.

They insisted that we stop with them, saying it was madness to attempt to go on. I told them
that my trust was in God, my business urgent, and we could not stop. We went forward twelve
miles, when we met the troops bringing in the wounded and the remnant of the men who had been
engaged with Capt. Mann in the late Indian fight; they also insisted that we return with them.
They said there were eight hundred mounted Indians not more than two miles back, following
up the rearguard, and that we would be massacred unless we returned with them. I admit that
the prospect looked dark. Still I felt impressed to push on.

Along this river, while it runs in nearly a level country and with no timber within a hundred
miles, there are many washes and gullies that sometimes run out perhaps a mile from the river.
Often these washes, which are quite deep, caused the road to twist round them, thus forcing
one to travel a couple of miles to gain two hundred yards in distance. It was near one of these
washes that we met the last of the troops.

We stopped at the point where the road turned back to the river. My comrades were in doubt
what to do. I felt that the danger was great. While debating the matter in my mind, my dream
that I had the night when I saw Lieut. Pace at my tent door came fresh before me. I saw the
whole situation.

While studying upon this matter I heard a voice - an audible voice - say:

"John, leave the road and follow me,"

The voice appeared to be about twenty feet in front of me, and the same distance from the earth.
I was startled, for no human being was there who could have spoken thus to me. I said to Lieut.
Gully:

"Did you hear that voice?"

"No," said he.

"What shall we do?" I asked.

"You are intrusted with this mission; follow your impressions and all will be right," he said.

From that moment I felt an invisible power which led me out upon the plains, away from roads
or trails.

We went about half a mile, when we came to a low basin, which entirely hid us from the road.
This basin contained about one acre of ground, and was covered with good grass. I felt impelled
to stop there, and did so. It was then about 1 o'clock, p. m.

Soon after halting we saw a cloud of dust made by a large herd of buffaloes running from the
river where they had gone for water and had been frightened by Indians. We did not see the
Indians, for we were protected by our position. We stayed there and let our animals eat grass
for about one hour and a half. We then drove on, following my invisible guide, in an easterly
direction, over a country entirely strange to me. We traveled until after dark, when we came
to a wash which my spirit guide directed me to follow to the river. I did so, and came to the
very spot where the Indians had attacked Capt. Mann that morning. Fragments of the train lay
scattered over the plain.

Our mules were frightened at the smell of the blood. We watered our animals, and filled our
canteens. The night was still and the least noise echoed and re-echoed through the river canyons,
until it made the place more than fearful for people in our situation. We traveled until near
midnight, when we turned out our animals, tied the dog to the wagon tongue, to give us a guard,
and then lay down and slept until daylight.

We never camped near watering places, nor near the trail. Our reasons for camping away from
water, and at least half a mile from the trail, were to avoid the Indians. We never had a fire
at night.

The next day we found a fat young mule, with all its harness on. It had been frightened during
the battle and broken way from the command. It was fully forty miles from the battleground.
I was in need of fresh animals, for mine were nearly worn out. The finding of this mule gave
me renewed confidence in God, and strengthened my belief that He was leading us.

The next day we moved in the same direction. The heavy rains had made the grass good. Buffalo
were constantly in sight. We followed our course three days, when we struck the trail at a
stream called Walnut Creek.

Here we found an Indian encampment; the Indians were on a buffalo hunt. We crossed the creek
and camped, concluding to cook our supper and let our animals eat and rest. It was no use trying
to escape from the Indians; they had seen us and could capture us if they wished to do so.
I felt that the best plan was to appear easy and without fear.

Soon after camping, a band of over fifty warriors surrounded us. I offered to shake hands,
but they refused. I offered them pins and needles and some calico that I had purchased to trade
with the Spaniards. They took my proffered gifts and dashed them on the ground. I began to
feel that, although we had been delivered from former dangers, our time had come. I remarked
to Lieut. Gully, who was a true and faithful man:

"Pray in your heart to God, and ask Him to turn away the ire of these people. They have been
abused by white men and soldiers. They think we are of that class, and only friendly because
we are in their power; if they knew who we are, and that we have been sent to preach the gospel
to them, and teach them its truths through the Book of Mormon, they would die sooner than see
us hurt."

An elderly Indian turned to a noble young buck. They talked some time, and would occasionally
point to me. Then they dismounted and came nearer us. The old man raised his voice and talked
in a loud tone and rapid manner to his men for five or ten minutes. The young buck then spoke
to me in English, much to our surprise. He said:

"Young man, this is my father. He is Hard Robe, the war chief of the Osage Indians. I have
been educated in the East. We came here with the intention of scalping you all. This tribe
has been abused by what my father calls the palefaces, though he wishes to be friendly with
them. When a small part of this nation comes in contact with a larger force of palefaces, they
are shot and abused; but when the Indians have the advantage, the palefaces want to be friends.
We thought you were of that class, but now my father is satisfied you are good men. I have
read the Book of Mormon to him and to our tribe. I got the book from a preacher who was in
the Cherokee Nation. My father wishes me to say to you that you shall not be hurt. If you need
dried buffalo meat you can have all you want. Do not be afraid, we will not harm you, but you
must remain here until morning, otherwise you might fall in with some of my father's braves,
who, not knowing who you are, would attack you. If you stay until morning I shall go with you
until you are out of danger."

To this I replied that we must go on; that we had letters from the Mormon Battalion to their
friends at home, and must go at once. The young man told the chief what I said. The chief replied
through the young warrior:

"If you cannot stay, I will send word to the other chiefs not to hurt you. They may not see
you, as they are away from the trail, but I will send runners to tell them to let you pass
in peace."

We thanked him, and I told him I was raised among the Delawares and Cherokees; that when a
child I used to play with them before they were removed to this country, and was still their
friend.

The chief then asked if we wanted any dried meat. I told him no, that I preferred fresh meat.
I saw a buffalo near by, and asked them to kill it, and bring me some of the meat. One of the
Indians rode for the buffalo at full speed of his pony. The well- trained beast stopped when
near the buffalo, and the Indian shot it down; then he jumped from his saddle and cut out a
piece of the hump, and returned with it before we were ready to start. I gave the Indians what
trinkets we had and started on again. It was now after sunset.

Here was another manifestation of Almighty God. I felt so grateful for our deliverance that
I could not restrain my tears of gratitude. I care not what people may call me. I know there
is a just God, and a Rewarder of those who diligently seek Him. I know that my Redeemer liveth
and I shall see Him for myself and not for another. Though the day of my execution be now at
hand - four days only are given me to continue this story of my life - my trust is in that
Arm that cannot be broken. Though men may err, and cruelly betray each other unto death, nevertheless
the hope of my calling in Christ Jesus, my Lord, is the same with me. I shall rest in peace.
However, I must not destroy the thread of my narrative. I must continue, to the end that my
story live when I am no more.

The next day two Indians came to us, but they could not talk English, and we could not speak
their tongue, so we had no conversation. I am certain from the actions of the two Indians that
the old chief had kept his word with us and notified his tribe to let us go in safety.

On reaching the Pawnee Fork, a tributary of the Arkansas, we found Capt. Bullard's train of
thirty wagons. They lay by all day searching for eight mules that had been stampeded by the
Indians, although picketed and closely guarded. The company could not find a trace of them.

The men were a rough, boisterous set, and, while our animals were weary, I concluded that it
was best to go further before camping. It was raining, but that made traveling better, for
the country was sandy.

We camped that night at Ash Creek. We now felt that we were over the worst of our dangers,
but we still had enough of trials before us to keep the expedition from becoming a pleasure trip.

Next morning our riding animals were unable to travel. They refused to go on. I went to God
in prayer and laid our case before Him, and asked that He open up the path for our deliverance.
That night I dreamed that I was exceedingly hungry and had little to eat, when several ears
of large, solid corn were handed me by an angel, who said:

"This will meet your needs until you are where there is plenty."

The ears of corn were of different colors; one ear was jet black, but perfectly sound; one
was red, and one was yellow. I was much pleased with the corn and felt there was not much danger
of suffering now. The next morning our animals still looked bad; only two of our riding animals
could raise a trot. Lieut. Gully said that unless God soon sent us some fresh animals we would
have to give up.

"We will not give up," said I. "God has protected us thus far and we will trust in Him - in
the eleventh hour of our trouble He will aid us. We will find help to-day."

"I hope so," said he. "Have you been dreaming again?"

Thereupon I related my dream about the corn, and said that I thought the ears of corn meant mules.

After prayer (we always kneeled in prayer, night and morning) we started on our way. The mules
could hardly travel.

We had gone about six miles when we saw fresh tracks made by shod animals, that appeared to
be dragging long ropes and pins. The tracks were following the trail and going in the same
direction that we were traveling. We had a long down grade before us. The plain was dotted
here and there with herds of buffalo. I halted and with my spyglass took a careful survey of
the country. My efforts were rewarded by the sight of mules feeding among the buffalo.

We went on until we arrived as close to them as we could go without leaving the trail. We called
a halt, turned our mules loose, then spread out the oilcloth that I used to feed the mules
on, and scattered a little of the grain we had left on the cloth. The strange mules saw it,
and came running to get a feed of grain. We got hold of the ropes that were on the necks of
four of the mules and tied them together.

There was a black mare mule that was quite shy, but I finally caught the rope that was on her
neck. The mule at that came at me with her ears turned back and mouth open. She caught me by
the arm and bit me severely, then turned and ran away. Lieut. Gully said:

"Let her go, she will kill some of us."

"No, we will not let her go," said I.

Again I caught her, and she made for me again, but I caught the rope near the end where it
was fastened to an iron pin, and struck her a blow with the pin, which knocked her down. I
then placed my knee on her neck, and caught her by the nose with my hands. I held her in this
way until a bridle was put on her, after which we were able to manage her easily. I hitched
this wild mule to the wagon by the side of Friendship. We now had fresh riding animals, and
turned our jaded ones loose, and drove them before us.

At Kane Creek we lost the mule that I got from the soldiers in Santa Fe. It drank more of the
alkali water than was good for it; we left it on the plains and went our way. We saw so many
fresh Indian signs that we knew we had no time to stay and doctor sick mules. A few nights
later I saw a large body of Indians among the cedars on a mountain, not far off, but our lucky
star was guiding us, for soon we met three hundred soldiers, with whom we camped that night.
The force was so strong that the Indians did not attack us. Next day we met soldiers frequently,
and every few hours thereafter we encountered troops until we reached Fort Leavenworth.

It was storming hard when we got to St. Joseph, Missouri. We put up at a hotel, but before
our animals were in a stable Eagan was gone. I could not find him that night, albeit we searched
for him diligently. I was afraid he would be robbed; but he happened to meet honest men, as
drunkards will, who put him in bed, and kept him and his money in safety until morning. After
leaving St. Joseph, where we had purchased a lot of supplies, we started for winter quarters;
we had to go through six feet of snow the whole distance.

We reached our friends. I had two hundred dollars, of which the soldiers had made me a present.
I took three of the mules we had found on the way, and divided the others between my companions.
We reached winter quarters, now called Florence, on the 15th day of December, 1846. The snow
was deep, and my family, all living in tents, were in a suffering condition. But I must report
to Brigham, then attend to my family. My family received me as they always did, with open arms
and thankful hearts.

CHAPTER XVII - LEE IS TREATED BADLY BY THE BRETHREN

With me I had brought home about all that my team could haul of supplies, clothing, and groceries,
which soon made my family comfortable. I had met Brigham and shaken hands with him, but had
not made my report or delivered the money to him. The next morning Brigham called to see me,
and notified me that the Council would meet at nine o'clock at Dr. Richards', and for me to
be there and make my report. He appeared ashamed of the manner in which my family had been treated.

"Brother Brigham, how does this compare with your promises to me, when I trusted all to you?"
I said.

"Brother John," Brigham replied, "I am ashamed of the conduct of this people. Do not blame
me, Brother John, for I have done the best I could." Then putting his hand on my shoulder,
he said: "Don't feel bad about it. You will live through, and the day will come when we can
look back and see what we have endured for the Kingdom of Heaven's sake. Lord bless you, Brother
John."

Allow me to jump from 1847 to 1877, just thirty years. I have remained faithful to the end.
I was adopted by Brigham, and was to seek his interests here, and in return he was to seek
my salvation; I, being an heir of his family, was to share his blessings in common with his
other heirs. True to my pledges, I have done his bidding. I have let him direct my energies
in all things. And the time has come for me to receive my reward. An offering must be made;
I must hew the wood and build the altar; then, as did Abraham of old with his son Isaac, I
must be laid upon the altar as a sacrifice. I must meet my fate without murmuring or complaining;
I must submit, true to the end. If I endure firm to the end, I will receive the martyr's crown.

After my return, my first duty was to build comfortable houses for my family. Soon afterwards
I was sent to St. Joseph to cash the checks and purchase goods to supply the wants of the people.
I was directed to purchase a lot of salt and potatoes from a Frenchman at Trading Point. I
did so, and bought three hundred dollars' worth on credit, and sent it back to the settlement.
I had to borrow the money from Mrs. Armstrong to pay the three hundred dollars. But she was
afterwards sealed to me, and it was then all in the family. I never asked Brigham for it, and
he never offered to pay it.

On that trip to St. Joseph I bought fifteen hundred dollars' worth of goods, such as were needed
at the settlement. I advanced seven hundred dollars of my own money; the remainder was from
the money sent home by the Mormon Battalion. I took the goods back and we opened a store at
winter quarters. Brother Rockwood acted as chief clerk and salesman. We sold the goods at a
great advance. What cost us seven cents in St. Joseph we sold at sixty- five cents. Everything
was sold at a similar profit. I kept the stock up during the winter and did a good business.
One drawback was this: many of the families of the men who were in the Mormon Battalion had
no money, and we were obliged to let them have goods on credit. I had to stand the loss myself,
for few of the men ever paid a dollar due me when they returned.

Andrew Little was in the battalion, and at the request of Brigham I let his family have two
hundred and fifty-eight dollars' worth of goods. Brigham said I should have my money when Little
returned, but I never got any of it. Little was also an adopted son of Brigham, and did about
as he pleased. James Pace, Thomas Woolsey, and a few others of the soldiers paid me when they
returned for what I had advanced their families, but the majority never paid.

When I returned from Santa Fe I found David Young, his wife, and two daughters lying sick and
helpless - really in want. I took care of them and supplied them with food and such articles
as they required until the death of the father, mother, and one son, which took place in a
short time - a few months after my return home. I had baptized this family in Putnam County,
Tennessee, and felt an interest in them. The two girls were sealed to me while we stayed at
winter quarters, and became members of my family. They are both living. By them I have had
three sons and three daughters. They were sealed to me in 1847. I was also sealed to Nancy
Armstrong the same evening that I took the Young girls to wife. A few evenings afterwards I
was sealed to Emeline Woolsey. She was my thirteenth wife.

Nancy Armstrong's maiden name was Gibbons. She was the wife of a wealthy merchant by the name
of Armstrong, who owned a large establishment in Louisville, and another in Carlisle, Kentucky,
at which places he did business as wholesale and retail dealer in dry goods. I became acquainted
with the family at Carlisle, while preaching there.

The people of Carlisle were bitter enemies of the Mormon Church, and a mob threatened to tar
and feather me one night, when Armstrong took me home with him and protected me. He was not
a believer in any religion, but I always considered him a high- minded, honorable man. I afterwards
often stopped at the house.

His wife and sister Sarah were believers in the Mormon faith, but as Mr. Armstrong was not,
I advised his wife not to become a member of the Church, and refused to baptize her until her
husband would consent to it. Elder Smoot afterwards baptized Sarah Gibbons and Nancy Armstrong.

Brother Smoot had taken his wife with him on the mission, and she laid the plan to get Sarah
to go to Nauvoo. A wagon was sent to take Sarah Gibbons' goods to Nauvoo, and in it Mrs. Armstrong
sent her valuable clothing and jewelry, amounting to more than two thousand dollars. She intended
to join the Saints at the first chance.

Within a few months after Sarah had gone Mrs. Armstrong got the consent of her husband to pay
a visit to her sister and the Church at Nauvoo; he fitted her up in fine style, sending two
serving maids to wait on her.

Soon after she left home the friends of Armstrong advised him to stop his slaves at St. Louis,
if he wanted to keep them, for his wife would never return to him. Armstrong stopped the slaves,
and his wife went on to Nauvoo, where she stayed until the Saints left that place after the
death of the Prophet. Elder Smoot had planned to get Mrs. Armstrong to Nauvoo, so he could
be sealed to her and get her property. Sarah Gibbons was sealed to Elder Smoot, but Mrs. Armstrong
would not consent to take him as her husband; but she lived in the family until she got disgusted
with Smoot's treatment of her sister. She loaned him nearly all her money and he never paid
it back; he wanted the rest, but she refused to let him have it; he then declined to take her
with him across the plains. She told her griefs to my wife Rachel, and Rachel brought about
the marriage between her and myself.

Mrs. Armstrong told Rachel that I was the first man on earth to bring the gospel to her, and
she had always had a great regard for me, but I appeared to treat her coldly. Rachel told her
that I always spoke kindly of her, and the reason I had not been more friendly was because
I thought she wanted to become a member of Brother Smoot's family; that she had heard me speak
of her in terms of praise many times.

Finally she came to my house and I asked her, in the presence of my wives, to become a member
of my family. My wives advised me to be sealed to her, and, as the matter was agreeable all
round, I was. Brigham sealed her and the Young girls to me. She was a true, affectionate woman.
My whole family respected her. She was forty-eight years of age when she was sealed to me,
and remained a true wife until her death.

In matters of this kind I tried to act from principle and not from passion. Yet I do not pretend
to say that all such acts wore directed by principle, for I know they were not. I am not blind
to my own faults. I have been a proud man, and in my younger days I thought I was perfection.
In those days, too, I expected perfection in all women. I know now that I was foolish in looking
for that in anybody.

In this I did wrong. I have regretted the same in sorrow many years. Two of the young women
so used still keep warm hearts for me, notwithstanding my conduct toward them. They were young
and in the prime of life when I sent them from me. They have since married again, and are the
mothers of families. They frequently send letters to comfort me in my troubles and afflictions,
but their kind remembrances serve only to add to my self-reproach for my cruel treatment of
them in past years. I banished them from me for lesser offenses than I myself had been guilty of.

Brigham built a gristmill during the winter, and ground meal for the people, charging a toll
for all that the mill ground. In the spring I was ordered to go out and preach, and raise thirty-three
wagons with the mules and harness to draw them. I succeeded in getting thirty of the teams.
Brigham told me to go again, that he had asked for thirty-three teams, not for thirty. I went
again, and preached so that I soon had the other teams. I then turned the whole outfit over
to Brigham, so he could send his pioneers to look up a new home for the Saints. I offered to
go with the company, but Brigham said:

"I cannot spare you; I can spare others better than you."

Brigham directed me to take my family and a company and go and raise corn for the people. He said:

"I want you to take a company, with your family, and go up the river and open up a farm, and
raise grain and vegetables to feed the needy and the soldiers' families. We cannot depend on
hauling our substance from Missouri, to feed the many that we have on our hands. I want so
much grain raised that all will be supplied next winter, for we must feed our animals grain
if we wish to cross the plains next spring. There is an old military fort about eighteen miles
above here, where the land was once farmed, and that land is in good condition for farming
now. We will leave Father Morley in charge of the various settlements. Brother Heber C. Kimball
will send some of his boys and make another farm this side of there." Then turning to Father
Morley, he said: "I want John to take charge of the farming interests and the settlement at
my place, and you must counsel and advise with him from time to time. I want you and all the
brethren to understand that the land nearest the settlement is to be divided between John and
his wives, for they are workers. The others are to go further for their land."

At this I said that such an arrangement would not give satisfaction to the people; there were
several of his adopted sons already jealous of me, and I feared the consequences, and preferred
to have the land divided more equally.

"Who is jealous of you?" he asked.

Then I named several persons to him. In reply he said, naming a man, that he would work all
day under the shade of a tree. Another could work all day in a half-bushel. Then he said:

"Such men will do but little; let them go to some outside place for their land. I want those
who will work to have the best land. Let each family have an acre near the settlement for a
garden and truck patch. And now, Father Morley, I want you to see that John and his family
have all the cleared land they can tend, for I know they will raise a good crop, and when it
is raised we can all share with him. I want a company to follow Brother John, about the 1st
of May, when the grass is good, made up of men that can fit themselves out comfortably. My
brother, John Young, will lead them, and Jedde Grant will be their captain." Then he turned
to me and said: "Brother John, I want you to fit my brother John out. If he needs oxen, let
him have them, and I will pay them back; see that he gets a good outfit. When he leaves here
Father Morley will take charge of the Church. I want the brethren to do as Brother John tells
them; he carries a good in- fluence wherever he goes; no evil reports follow him from his field
of labor; all respect him, and that is evidence to me that he carries himself straight."

Now, I settled up my business at the winter quarters. Brigham was indebted to the firm two
hundred and eighty-five dollars; he had not the money to settle the account, and he was just
starting to look out a resting place for the Saints. His first adopted son, Brother Rockwood,
our salesman, could not spare a dollar, so the loss of that money fell on me. I told Brigham
he was welcome to the two hundred and eighty-five dollars. Before he left for the new land
of promise he said to me:

"My son John, what shall I do for you?"

"Select me an inheritance when you find the resting-place," said I.

"I will remember you. May Heaven bless you. I bless you. Be a good boy. Keep an account of
how each man under your charge occupies his time, while I am gone."

Brigham then said I was to have half the improvements that were made, and half the crop that
was raised by the company I fitted out with teams, seeds, and provisions.

The pioneer company started April 1st, 1847. We moved to our new location, and called it Summer
Quarters. We threw up a fort to protect us from the Indians, as they were troublesome. We then
laid out our land. I found that if I obeyed orders it would require all the cleared land for
my family, so I set off three acres to each family - there were thirty-seven families - for
gardens, and took the balance.

Although I had given each family three times as much land, for a garden and truck patch, as
Brigham ordered, the people found a great deal of fault with me. Mrs. Armstrong had some money
left, and she told me to take it and send for supplies and seed corn. I did take it, and sent
four teams to Missouri for corn and provisions, and then set all hands at work building the
fort and putting the land in order for the crop.

About the beginning of May thirty-eight warriors of the Oto tribe came to our camp. They were
in full paint, and on the warpath. They came in on the yell, and at full speed. It was just
daylight; I was laying the foundation of a house when they came to me. I threw logs against
them as if I did not see them, but most of the brethren kept out of sight.

The Indians began to build a fire in my garden, and one raised his gun to shoot one of my oxen
which the boys were driving up. The majority of the Indians formed a half circle, holding their
bows fully strung, and commenced a war dance. We had been told not to shoot Indians, but to
take sticks and whale them when they commenced any depredations. As the Indian took the leather
casing from his gun so that he could shoot, I rushed them with a heavy club, with the intention
of knocking down as many as I could. I could speak their language some, and I told them I would
kill them all if they shot my ox. They saw that I meant what I said. Then the two chiefs held
out their hands, and yelled to the warrior not to shoot. He lowered his gun and returned to
the crowd, but he was very angry. The other Indians seemed amazed, and stood as if paralyzed.
Old man Knight followed me with a club, and stood by me all the time. Joseph Busby said:

"Hold on, Brother Lee, they outnumber us."

"For all that," said I, "there are not Indians enough in their nation to make me stand by and
see them shoot down my oxen before my eyes."

Busby then ran into the house to load my gun, but he was so frightened he could not get the
powder in it, and my wife Rachel loaded it for him. I looked around to see how things were,
and saw seven of my wives standing with guns in their hands, ready to shoot if I was attacked.
I succeeded in driving the Indians from the settlement.

Some time after the Indians had gone away an old chief returned and brought an ax that he said
one of his bucks had stolen. I gave him a little ammunition and bread, and he left me as a friend.

My firm stand saved the settlement at that time and secured it from molestation in the future.
The Indians never bothered us at Summer Quarters again. In the fall they made us a friendly
visit, and called me a Sioux.

Near our settlement there was an abundance of wild game - deer, turkey, prairie chickens, ducks,
geese, brant, and squirrels - which gave us much of our food during our stay. We worked diligently
and raised a great crop of corn and vegetables. We built comfortable houses, and made the floors
and roofs of basswood, which was plenty near by, and worked easily.

In July the people were all sick. The fever and ague were fairly a contagion. Other diseases
were not uncommon. In August and September seventeen of our people died. During these months
we had hardly a sufficient number of well people to attend to the sick. The most of my family
were very sick. My little son, Heber John, the child of my first wife, Agathe Ann, died; also
David Young, Sr., the father of my two wives, Polly and Louisa; also their brother, David Young,
Jr. I lay at the point of death for some time. I was in a trance nearly one hour and a half.

While in this condition my wives Rachel and Nancy stood over me like guardian angels, and prayed
for me. My spirit left the body and I was taken into another sphere, where I saw myriads of
people - many of whom I was acquainted with and had known on earth. The atmosphere that they
dwelt in was pure and hallowed. Pain and sorrow were unknown. All was joy and peace. Each spirit
was blest with all the pleasure its ability enabled it to comprehend and enjoy. They had full
knowledge of earthly doings and also of the sphere where they were so blest. The glory of God
shone upon them, the power of Heaven over-shadowed them all, and was to them a shield from
temptations and dangers. I was anxious to remain, but the spirits told me I must return to
the body and remain in it until my appointed time for death - that my work on earth was not
yet finished. I obeyed, but did so with reluctance, and once more entered the body, then apparently
lifeless upon the bed of sickness.

After taking possession of the body again I lay some time in deep thought, contemplating the
majesty of God's works. I then spoke to my faithful nurses, and told them of what I had done,
heard, and witnessed. I recovered from my sickness, but my life was for some time a misery
to me. I longed to join that angelic host I had so lately visited in their mansions of glory
and pleasure, where I knew I was to go when I escaped from this body of earthly material.

This feeling of anxiety to go to my eternal rest was strengthened by the bitter, malignant
actions of men who acted like demons toward me and mine. Every species of intrigue and meanness
was resorted to by several of the brethren to injure and torment me. They were jealous of me
and anxious to provoke me to violence. Everything that envy and hatred could suggest was tried
to break up and scatter my family. Finally they reported to Father Morley that nothing but
a change of rulers in the settlement would bring peace.

Father Morley came, with several elders, and called a meeting, at which he heard all the parties
state their grievances against me. He then told them they had brought nothing against me that
reflected upon me as presiding officer; that I had acted well and for the best interest of
the entire people; that all the trouble arose from the wrong acts of the people.

One of the brethren, C. Kennedy, proposed a change. He wanted a High Priest to preside instead
of a Seventy. I was tired of my position and consented to the change. A man by the name of
Fuller was selected by Kennedy to rule over the people. Father Morley put the question to a
vote of the people, and said that all who wished a change of rulers should hold up their hands.
Only two hands were raised. Then he said that all who wished me to remain in charge should
raise their hands, when every person present but two voted that I should still be the ruler
at Summer Quarters.

Father Morley called upon the two brethren who had voted for a change to get up and tell what
they had against me. They could give no good reason for wanting a change. They said they had
never lived by a better neighbor or kinder man than I was, but that I was too kind. I let the
people run over me; and they voted for a change believing it would tend to unite the people
and satisfy those who had been raising a fuss and finding fault.

Father Morley told them it was wrong to vote against a good man for such reasons. He talked
to the people on the principles of their religion for some time, and advised them to forsake
their evil ways, for they were going in a road that led to hell. This ended my troubles for
a time, but I soon found that my enemies had only let go their hold to spit on their hands
and get a better one.

They asked to be allowed to organize a Danite force for the protection of the settlement. This
was to be entirely apart from me. I granted their request. It was next decided to build an
estray pound. A meeting was called and it was agreed that each man should build fence in proportion
to the amount of stock he owned, and that the public corral should be used for the estray pound.
But no stock was to be put into the pound until all the fencing was done and the gates set
up. I at once completed my fencing, but the grumblers had no time to work; they were too busy
finding fault. The whole thing was a subterfuge, and was meant to bother me. There was no need
of a pound, as our cattle were herded in daytime and corralled at night. But I submitted, for
I knew I could live by their laws as well as they.

One evening, as my cattle were being driven up for the night, one of the oxen broke through
a brush fence and got into a patch of corn. The herdsman ran him out in a moment. Instead of
holding the herder responsible for the damage, or coming to me to make a complaint and demand
pay for the wrong, they took my ox out of the corral, and, contrary to the vote of the people,
tied him up in Wm. Pace's private corral. I was the only man who had made his fence, as ordered
by the meeting. I did not know that they had my ox tied up (for work had not been done to justify
putting any stock in the pound).

Next morning I sent one of my boys to yoke up my oxen; he returned and informed me that one
of my oxen was missing. I soon found the ox, and demanded its release. I was told I must pay
twenty dollars before I could have the ox, and pay it in money. I saw this was done to worry
me, and sent word that I would pay in any kind of property I had.

They refused everything but money or butter. I had neither to spare, and they well knew it.
I was still weak from my recent sickness, but I walked over and had a talk with Wm. Pace and
tried to reason with him, but to no purpose. I told him he ought to take pay for damage done
by stock in the kind of property that the stock had injured, but no, I must pay money or butter,
or lose my ox. I reflected a moment and concluded that forbearance had ceased to be a virtue;
that unless I defended my rights I would soon be without anything worth protecting. I then
walked into the yard, untied the ox, and told my boy to drive him home. Pace stood by the gate
with a large cane, but made no resistance; in fact, he was not a bad man, but was being misled
by evil company.

Kennedy, Busby, Dunn, and others were a little way off. They saw me, and came running up. Kennedy
was the bully of the camp, and the leader of those against me. He came up and said:

"If I had been here you would not have turned that ox out. I would have switched you if you
had tried it."

"Kennedy," I said, "I have lost property enough without your oppressing me any more."

He shoved his fist under my nose. I parried his blow, and told him that he would do well to
keep at a proper distance from me. He again made a pass at me. I then threw down my hat and said:

"If you attempt that again you must take what follows."

He came at me the third time, and as he did so I aimed to spoil his face, but he dropped his
head as I struck; the blow took effect on his eyebrow, and badly sprained my thumb. We were
on a little knoll, full of stumps of small trees that had been cut down. Kennedy caught hold
of me and commenced shoving me back.

I knew that my strength would not last long. I did not wish to risk having a tussle among the
stumps, so I backed towards the cleared ground. I fastened my left hand in his long black hair
to steady myself, and as I reached the flat ground I suddenly leaped back, breaking his hold
by tearing my shirt. I then jerked him forward at an angle of forty-five degrees, and planted
my fist in his face; stepping back, and drawing him after me, I kept feeding him in the face
with my fist, the blood spurting over me.

The crowd saw their bully getting the worst of it, and ran in to help him. Brother Teeples
caught me around the arms, to prevent me striking any more. My Rachel, who was standing by,
called to her brother, James Woolsey, and he came and took hold of Kennedy and separated us.
I was sorry that this fight took place, for I had severely punished the bully, and his face
was badly bruised.

This suited the people; I had shown violence, and now they could lay a charge against me that
they thought would stand. I was cited to appear before the High Council, and be dealt with
according to the rules of the Church, for a breach of the peace and for unchristian conduct.

The whole people were not against me, only a few; but there were enough of them to keep up
a constant broil. They began consecrating my property to their own use; killed my cattle, and
ate them, and stole everything that was loose. They stole wheat from my graneries, had it ground,
and ate it, and bragged about it.

Kennedy, by the evil influences he commanded, induced my young wife, Emeline, to leave me and
go to his house, and she went with his family to the winter quarters. That was the reason that
I turned her away and refused to take her back. She repented, and wished to come back, but
I would not receive her.

Similar influences were brought to bear on all of my family, but without success. Such treatment
was not calculated to bind me to such a people, whose only aim appeared to be to deprive me
of every comfort and enjoyment that made life endurable. I was in great trouble; in place of
friends I had found enemies. There was a struggle in my mind to decide what I should do. I
looked upon those of my family that remained true and shared my persecutions, and knew that
if I left the Church I could not keep or live with them; that if I left I must part with all
but my first wife and her children, and to do so was worse than death. I did not know what
to do. I finally appeared before the High Council to meet my accusers, who had formed a combination
to destroy me. I had few friends to defend me, and they were in a measure powerless. They dared
not speak their mind in my behalf.

