TACITUS AND BRACCIOLINI.

THE ANNALS FORGED IN THE XVth CENTURY.

by JOHN WILSON ROSS (1818-1887)

Originally published anonymously in 1878.

    Non ulli Tacitus patuit manifestius unquam.
                                         SOSSAGO. Epigrammata.

    Excellentissimum Poggium, immortalem quidem virum, sed prope
    hac aetate sepultum, redivivium donaveris nobis.
               BICCIONI. Epistola Hyacintho de Lan inscripta.

    Is ... reliquit, quae et facundiam, et mirificam ingenii
    facilitatem ostendunt. Tendebat toto animo, et quotidiano
    quodam usu ad EFFINGENDUM ... Sed habet hoc dilucida illa
    divini hominis in dicendo copia, ut estimanti se imitabilem
    praebeat, experienti spem imitationis eripiat. Eam
    igitur dicendi laudem POGGIUS si non facultate, at certe
    voluntate complectebatur. Scripsit ... Historiam ...
    magnuum munus.
         PAOLO CORTESE (Bishop of Urbino). De Hominibus Doctis.

    Quaestio ... contra communem totius orbis traditionem ac fidem,
    contra tot historicocum ... nemine contradicente, consensum,
    demum agitari coepta est; et a nobis ... tam abunde ventilate,
    ut magis copia quam inopia laborare videamur.
         GISBERT VOET. Spicilegium ad Disceptationem Historicam de
                       Papissa Johanna.

LONDON: 1878

I DEDICATE TO MY ESTEEMED AND ESTIMABLE BROTHER ROBERT DALRYMPLE ROSS

This Research into The Authorship of the Annals of Tacitus

AS A VERY SLIGHT TOKEN OF MY AFFECTION AND ALSO OF MY ADMIRATION FOR HIS RARE ASSEMBLAGE OF
QUALITIES LOFTY MORAL RECTITUDE THE KINDLIEST FEELINGS OF THE HEART DEVOTION TO HIGH OCCUPATION
APTITUDE FOR BOOKS AS FOR AFFAIRS

AND

A REFINED ENLIGHTENMENT TO APPRECIATE THE GENIUS OF TACITUS AND OF BRACCIOLINI

AND

FULLY TO APPREHEND AN INVESTIGATION UNDERTAKEN IN THE TRUE INTERESTS OF HISTORICAL KNOWLEDGE.

PREFACE

The theory broached in this book involves a charge of the grossest fraud against a most distinguished
man, who rose to high posts in public affairs and won imperishable fame in letters. There being
blots on his moral character, it would be censurable to fasten upon his memory this new imputation
of dishonesty, were it not substantiated by irresistible evidence.

The title of this book quite explains what its design is,--to contribute something towards
settling the authorship of the Annals of Tacitus, which encomiastic admirers imagine to be
the most extraordinary history ever penned, and the writer "but one degree removed from inspiration,
if not inspired." This wondrous writer I assert to be the famous Florentine of the Renaissance,
Poggio Bracciolini, in favour of which view I have tried to make out a case by bringing forward
a variety of passages from the "History" and the "Annals" to show an extensive series of contradictions
as to facts and characters, departures from truth about matters connected with ancient Roman
life, laches in grammar and use of words that never could have proceeded from any patrician
or plebian of the world-renowned old Commonwealth, with a number of other things that will
readily strike the intelligent and sober mind as utterly inconsistent with the existing belief
of the "Annals" being the production of Tacitus. All this is case in the shade for the fullest
light to be thrown on the subject, when not wishing to make my theory a matter of speculation
but founded in common sense, I give a detailed history of the forgery, from its conception
to its completion, the sum that was paid for it, the abbey where it was transcribed, and other
such convincing minutiae taken from a correspondence that Poggio carried on with a familiar
friend who resided in Florence.

A reader of acumen and critical faculty following a writer in an inquiry of this nature places
himself in the position of a lawyer who will not accept the interpretation of an Act of Parliament,
or even a clause in it, as correct, except,--as his phrase goes,--it "runs upon all fours:"
he knows that it is with a speculation in a literary matter as with a chapter of a statute:
he struggles to raise only a single valid objection against what is advanced: if successful
he at one destroys the whole of the theory, from thus exposing it to view as not "running upon
all fours;" the fabric is, in fact, discovered to be reared on a false foundation; it must,
therefore, fall as at the slightest breath a child's house built of cards; and the theory becomes
one more added to the list of those that are apocryphal. If on examination it should be agreed
that the theory in this book is without a flaw, I conceived that I shall have done not a small,
but a considerable service to the cause of true history.

LONDON, April 3, 1878.

CONTENTS.

BOOK THE FIRST.

TACITUS.

CHAPTER I.

TACITUS COULD BARELY HAVE WRITTEN THE ANNALS.

 I. From the chronological point of view.
 II. The silence preserved about that work by all writers till
 the fifteenth century.
 III. The age of the MSS. containing the Annals.

CHAPTER II.

A FEW REASONS FOR BELIEVING THE ANNALS TO BE A FORGERY.

 I. The fifteenth century an age of imposture, shown in the
 invention of printing.
 II. The curious discovery of the first six books of the Annals.
 III. The blunders it has in common with all forged documents.
 IV. The Twelve Tables.
 V. The Speech of Claudius in the Eleventh Book of the Annals.
 VI. Brutus creating the second class of nobility.
 VII. Camillus and his grandson.
 VIII. The Marching of Germanicus.
 IX. Description of London in the time of Nero.
 X. Labeo Antistius and Capito Ateius; the number of people
 executed for their attachment to Sejanus; and the
 marriage of Drusus, the brother of Tiberius, to the
 Elder Antonia.

CHAPTER III.

SUSPICIOUS CHARACTER OF THE ANNALS FROM THE POINT OF TREATMENT.

 I. Nature of the history.
 II. Arrangement of the narrative.
 III. Completeness in form.
 IV. Incongruities, contradictions and disagreements from the
 History of Tacitus.
 V. Craftiness of the writer.
 VI. Subordination of history to biography.
 VII. The author of the Annals and Tacitus differently illustrate
 Roman history.
 VIII. Characters and events corresponding to characters and
 events in the XVth century.
 IX. Greatness of the Author of the Annals.

CHAPTER IV.

HOW THE ANNALS DIFFERS FROM THE HISTORY.

 I. In the qualities of the writers; and why that difference.
 II. In the narrative, and in what respect.
 III. In style and language.
 IV. The reputation Tacitus has of writing bad Latin due to the
 mistakes of his imitator.

CHAPTER V.

THE LATIN AND THE ALLITERATIONS IN THE ANNALS.

 I. Errors in Latin, (a) on the part of the transcriber;
 (b) on the part of the writer.
 II. Diction and Alliterations: Wherein they differ from those
 of Tacitus.

BOOK THE SECOND.

BRACCIOLINI.

CHAPTER I.

BRACCIOLINI IN ROME.

 I. His genius and the greatness of his age.
 II. His qualifications.
 III. His early career.
 IV. The character of Niccolo Niccoli, who abetted him in the
 forgery
 V. Bracciolini's descriptive writing of the Burning of Jerome
 of Prague compared with the descriptive writing of the
 sham sea fight in the Twelfth Book of the Annals.

CHAPTER II.

BRACCIOLINI IN LONDON.

 I. Gaining insight into the darkest passions from associating
 with Cardinal Beaufort.
 II. His passage about London in the Fourteenth Book of the
 Annals examined.
 III. About the Parliament of England in the Fourth Book.

CHAPTER III.

BRACCIOLINI SETTING ABOUT THE FORGERY OF THE ANNALS

 I. The Proposal made in February, 1422, by a Florentine, named
 Lamberteschi, and backed by Niccoli.
 II. Correspondence on the matter, and Mr. Shepherd's view that
 it referred to a Professorship refuted.
 III. Professional disappointments in England determine
 Bracciolini to persevere in his intention of forging
 the Annals.
 IV. He returns to the Papal Secretaryship, and begins the
 forgery in Rome in October, 1423.

CHAPTER IV.

BRACCIOLINI AS A BOOKFINDER

 I. Doubts on the authenticity of the Latin, but not the
 Greek Classics.
 II. At the revival of letters Popes and Princes offered large
 rewards for the recovery of the ancient classics.
 III. The labours of Bracciolini as a bookfinder.
 IV. Belief put about by the professional bookfinders that
 MSS. were soonest found in obscure convents in barbarous
 lands.
 V. How this reasoning throws the door open to fraud and
 forgery.
 VI. The bands of bookfinders consisted of men of genius in
 every department of literature and science.
 VII. Bracciolini endeavours to escape from forging the Annals by
 forging the whole lost History of Livy.
 VIII. His Letter on the subject to Niccoli quoted, and examined.
 IX. Failure of his attempt, and he proceeds with the forgery of
 the Annals.

BOOK THE THIRD.

THE LAST SIX BOOKS OF THE ANNALS.

CHAPTER I.

THE CHARACTER OF BRACCIOLINI.

 I. The audacity of the forgery accounted for by the mean
 opinion Bracciolini had of the intelligence of men.
 II. The character and tone of the last Six Books of the Annals
 exemplified by what is said of Sabina Poppaea, Sagitta,
 Pontia and Messalina.
 III. A few errors that must have proceeded from Bracciolini
 about the Colophonian Oracle of Apollo Clarius, the
 Household Gods of the Germans, Gotarzes, Bardanes and,
 above all, Nineveh.
 IV. The estimate taken of human nature by the writer of the
 Annals the same as that taken by Bracciolini.
 V. The general depravity of mankind as shown in the
 Annals insisted upon in Bracciolini's Dialogue
 "De Infelicitate Principum".

CHAPTER II.

THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY.

 I. The intellect and depravity of the age.
 II. Bracciolini as its exponent.
 III. Hunter's accurate description of him.
 IV. Bracciolini gave way to the impulses of his age.
 V. The Claudius, Nero and Tiberius of the Annals
 personifications of the Church of Rome in the
 fifteenth century.
 VI. Schildius and his doubts.
 VII. Bracciolini not covetous of martyrdom: communicates his
 fears to Niccoli.
 VIII. The princes and great men in the Annals the princes and
 great men of the XVth century, not of the opening period
 of the Christian aera.
 IX. Bracciolini, and not Tacitus, a disparager of persons in
 high places.

CHAPTER III.

FURTHER PROOFS OF FORGERY.

 I. "Octavianus" as the name of Augustus Caesar.
 II. Cumanus and Felix as joint governors of Judaea.
 III. The blood relationship of Italians and Romans.
 IV. Fatal error in the oratio obliqua.
 V. Mistake made about "locus".
 VI. Objections of some critics to the language of Tacitus
 examined.
 VII. Some improprieties that occur in the Annals found also in
 Bracciolini's works.
 VIII. Instanced in (a) "nec--aut".
 (b) rhyming and the peculiar use of "pariter".
 IX. The harmony of Tacitus and the ruggedness of Bracciolini
 illustrated.
 X. Other peculiarities of Bracciolini's not shared by Tacitus:
 Two words terminating alike following two others with like
 terminations; prefixes that have no meaning; and playing
 on a single letter for alliterative purposes.

CHAPTER IV.

THE TERMINATION OF THE FORGERY.

 I. The literary merit and avaricious humour of Bracciolini.
 II. He is aided in his scheme by a monk of the Abbey of Fulda.
 III. Expressions indicating forgery.
 IV. Efforts to obtain a very old copy of Tacitus.
 V. The forgery transcribed in the Abbey of Fulda.
 VI. First saw the light in the spring of 1429.

CHAPTER V.

THE FORGED MANUSCRIPT.

 I. Recapitulation, showing the certainty of forgery.
 II. The Second Florence MS. the forged MS.
 III. Cosmo de' Medici the man imposed upon.
 IV. Digressions about Cosmo de' Medici's position, and fondness
 for books, especially Tacitus.
 V. The many suspicious marks of forgery about the Second
 Florence MS.; the Lombard characters; the attestation
 of Salustius.
 VI. The headings, and Tacitus being bound up with Apuleius,
 seem to connect Bracciolini with the forged MS.
 VII. The first authentic mention of the Annals.
 VIII. Nothing invalidates the theory in this book.
 IX. Brief recapitulation of the whole argument.

BOOK THE FOURTH.

THE FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ANNALS.

CHAPTER I.

REASONS FOR BELIEVING THAT BRACCIOLINI WROTE BOTH PARTS OF THE ANNALS.

 I. Improvement in Bracciolini's means after the completion
 of the forgery of the last part of the Annals.
 II. Discovery of the first six books, and theory about their
 forgery.
 III. Internal evidence the only proof of their being forged.
 IV. Superiority of workmanship a strong proof.
 V. Further departure than in the last six books from Tacitus's
 method another proof.
 VI. The symmetry of the framework a third proof.
 VII. Fourth evidence, the close resemblance in the openings of
 the two parts.
 VIII. The same tone and colouring prove the same authorship.
 IX. False statements made about Sejanus and Antonius Natalis
 for the purpose of blackening Tiberius and Nero.
 X. This spirit of detraction runs through Bracciolini's works.
 XI. Other resemblances denoting the same author.
 XII. Policy given to every subject another cause to believe both
 parts composed by a single writer.
 XIII. An absence of the power to depict differences in persons
 and things.

CHAPTER II.

LANGUAGE, ALLITERATION, ACCENT AND WORDS.

 I. The poetic diction of Tacitus, and its fabrication in
 the Annals.
 II. Florid passages in the Annals.
 III. Metrical composition of Bracciolini.
 IV. Figurative words: (a) "pessum dare"
 (b) "voluntas"
 V. The verb "foedare" and the Ciceronian use of "foedus".
 VI. The language of other Roman writers,--Livy, Quintus Curtius
 and Sallust.
 VII. The phrase "non modo--sed", and other anomalous expressions,
 not Tacitus's.
 VIII. Words not used by Tacitus, "distinctus" and "codicillus"
 IX. Peculiar alliterations in the Annals and works of
 Bracciolini.
 X. Monotonous repetition of accent on penultimate syllables.
 XI. Peculiar use of words: (a) "properus"
 (b) "annales" and "scriptura"
 (c) "totiens"
 XII. Words not used by Tacitus: (a) "addubitare"
 (b) "extitere"
 XIII. Polysyllabic words ending consecutive sentences.
 XIV. Omissions of prepositions: (a) in.
 (b) with names of nations.

CHAPTER III.

MISTAKES THAT PROVE FORGERY

 I. The gift for the recovery of Livia.
 II. Julius Caesar and the Pomoerium.
 III. Julia, the wife of Tiberius.
 IV. The statement about her proved false by a coin.
 V. Value of coins in detecting historical errors.
 VI. Another coin shows an error about Cornatus.
 VII. Suspicion of spuriousness from mention of the
 Quinquennale Ludicrum.
 VIII. Account of cities destroyed by earthquake contradicted by
 a monument.
 IX. Bracciolini's hand shown by reference to the Plague.
 X. Fawning of Roman senators more like conduct of Italians in
 the fifteenth century.
 XI. Same exaggeration with respect to Pomponia Graecina.
 XII. Wrong statement of the images borne at the funeral
 of Drusus.
 XIII. Similar kind of error committed by Bracciolini in his
 "Varietate Fortunae".
 XIV. Errors about the Red Sea.
 XV. About the Caspian Sea.
 XVI. Accounted for.
 XVII. A passage clearly written by Bracciolini.

CHAPTER THE LAST.

FURTHER PROOFS OF BRACCIOLINI BEING THE AUTHOR OF THE FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ANNALS.

 I. The descriptive powers of Bracciolini and Tacitus.
 II. The different mode of writing of both.
 III. Their different manners of digressing.
 IV. Two statements in the Fourth Book of the Annals that could
 not have been made by Tacitus.
 V. The spirit of the Renaissance shown in both parts of the
 Annals.
 VI. That both parts proceeded from the same hand shown in the
 writer pretending to know the feelings of the characters
 in the narrative.
 VII. The contradictions in the two parts of the Annals and in
 the works of Bracciolini.
 VIII. The Second Florence MS. a forgery.
 IX. Conclusion.

BOOK THE FIRST.

TACITUS.

 "Allusiones saepe subobscurae ... mihi conjectandi aliquando,
 et aliquando exploratae veritatis fundamento innitendi materiam
 praebuere."
 DE TONELLIS. Praef. ad Poggii Epist.

TACITUS AND BRACCIOLINI.

I. The Annals and the History of Tacitus are like two houses in ruins: dismantled of their
original proportions they perpetuate the splendour of Roman historiography, as the crumbling
remnants of the Coliseum preserve from oblivion the magnificence of Roman architecture. Some
of the subtlest intellects, keen in criticism and expert in scholarship, have, for centuries,
endeavoured with considerable pains, though not with success in every instance, to free the
imperfect pieces from difficulties, as the priesthood of the Quindecimvirs, generation after
generation, assiduously, yet vainly, strove to clear from perplexities the mutilated books
of the Sibyls. I purpose to bring,--parodying a passage of the good Sieur Chanvallon,--not
freestone and marble for their restoration, but a critical hammer to knock down the loose bricks
that, for more than four centuries, have shown large holes in several places.

Tacitus is raised by his genius to a height, which lifts him above the reach of the critic.
He shines in the firmament of letters like a sun before whose lustre all, Parsee-like, bow
down in worship. Preceding generations have read him with reverence and admiration: as one
of the greatest masters of history, he must continue to be so read. But though neither praise
nor censure can exalt or impair his fame, truth and justice call for a passionless inquiry
into the nature and character of works presenting such difference in structure, and such contradictions
in a variety of matters as the History and the Annals.

The belief is general that Tacitus wrote Roman history in the retrograde order, in which Hume
wrote the History of England. Why Hume pursued that method is obvious: eager to gain fame in
letters,--seeing his opportunity by supplying a good History of England,--knowing how interest
attaches to times near us while all but absence of sympathy accompanies those that are remote,--and
meaning to exclude from his plan the incompleted dynasty under which he lived,--he commenced
with the House of Stuart, continued with that of Tudor, and finished with the remaining portion
from the Roman Invasion to the Accession of Henry VII. But why Tacitus should have decided
in favour of the inverse of chronological order is by no means clear. He could not have been
actuated by any of the motives which influenced Hume. Rome, with respect to her history, was
not in the position that England was, with respect to hers, in the middle of the last century.
All the remarkable occurrences during the 820 years from her Foundation to the office of Emperor
ceasing as the inheritance of the Julian Family on the death of Nero, had been recorded by
many writers that rendered needless the further labours of the historian. Tacitus states this
at the commencement of his history, and as a reason why he began that work with the accession
of Galba: "Initium mihi operis Servius Galba iterum, Titus Vinius consules erunt; nam post
conditam urbem, octingentos et viginti prioris aevi annos multi auctores retulerunt." (Hist.
I. 1.) After this admission, it is absolutely unaccountable that he should revert to the year
since the building of the City 769, and continue writing to the year 819, going over ground
that, according to his own account, had been gone over before most admirably, every one of
the numerous historians having written in his view, "with an equal amount of forcible expression
and independent opinion"--"pari eloquentia ac libertate." Thus, by his own showing, he performed
a work which he knew to be superfluous in recounting events that occurred in the time of Tiberius,
Caligula, Claudius and Nero.

What authority have we that he did this? Certainly, not the authority of those who knew best--the
ancients. They do not mention, in their meagre accounts of him, the names of his writings,
the number of which we, perhaps, glean from casual remarks dropped by Pliny the Younger in
his Epistles. He says (vii. 20), "I have read your book, and with the utmost care have made
remarks upon such passages, as I think ought to be altered or expunged." "Librum tuum legi,
et quam diligentissime potui, adnotavi, quae commutanda, quae eximenda arbitrarer." In a second
letter (viii. 7) he alludes to another (or it might be the same) "book," which his friend had
sent him "not as a master to a master, nor as a disciple to a disciple, but as a master to
a disciple:" "neque ut magistro magister, neque ut discipulo discipulus ... sed ut discipulo
magister ... librum misisti." That Tacitus was not the author of one work only is clear from
Pliny in another of his letters (vi. 16) speaking in the plural of what his friend had written:
"the immortality of your writings:"-- "scriptorum tuorum aeternitas;" also of "my uncle both
by his own, and your works:"--"avunculus meus et suis libris et tuis." In the letter already
referred to (vii. 20), Tacitus is further spoken of as having written, at least, two historical
works, the immortality of which Pliny predicted without fear of proving a false prophet: "auguror,
nec me fallit augurium, historias tuas immortales futuras." From these passages it would seem
that the works of Tacitus were, at the most, three.

If his works were only three in number, everything points in preference to the Books of History,
of which we possess but five; the Treatise on the different manners of the various tribes that
peopled Germany in his day; and the Life of his father-in-law, Agricola. Nobody but Fabius
Planciades Fulgentius, Bishop of Carthage, supposes that he wrote a book of Facetiae or pleasant
tales and anecdotes, as may be seen by reference to the episcopal writer's Treatise on Archaic
or Obsolete Words, where explaining "Elogium" to mean "hereditary disease," he continues, "as
Cornelius Tacitus says in his book of Facetiae; 'therefore pained in the cutting off of children
who had hereditary disease left to them'": "Elogium est haereditas in malo; sicut Cornelius
Tacitus ait in libro Facetiarum: 'caesis itaque motum elogio in filiis derelicto.'" (De Vocibus
Antiquis. p. 151. Basle ed. 1549). Justus Lipsius doubts whether the Discourse on the Causes
of the Corruption of Latin Eloquence proceeded from Tacitus, or the other Roman to whom many
impute it, Quintilian, for he says in his Preface to that Dialogue: "What will it matter whether
we attribute it to Tacitus, or, as I once thought, to Marcus Fabius Quinctilianus? ... Though
the age of Quinctilianus seems to have been a little too old for this Discourse to be by that
young man. Therefore, I have my doubts." "Incommodi quid erit, sive Tacito tribuamus; sive
M. Fabio Quinctiliano, ut mihi olim visim? ... Aetas tamen Quinctiliani paullo grandior fuisse
videtur, quam ut hic sermo illo juvene. Itaque ambigo." (p. 470. Antwerp ed. 1607.) Enough
will be said in the course of this discussion to carry conviction to the minds of those who
can be convinced by facts and arguments that Tacitus did not write the Annals.

Chronology, in the first place, prevents our regarding him as the author. Though we know as
little of his life as of his writings-- and though no ancient mentions the date or place of
his birth, or the time of his death,--we can form a conjecture when he flourished by comparing
his age with that of his friend, Pliny the Younger. Pliny died in the year 13 of the second
century at the age of 52, so that Pliny was born A.D. 61. Tacitus was by several years his
senior. Otherwise Pliny would not have spoken of himself as a disciple looking up to him with
reverence as to "a master"; "the duty of submitting to his influence," and "a desire to obey
his advice":--"tu magister, ego contra"--(Ep. viii. 7): "cedere auctoritati tuae debeam" (Ep.
i. 20): "cupio praeceptis tuis parere" (Ep. ix. 10); nor would he describe himself as "a mere
stripling when his friend was at the height of fame and in a proud position": "equidem adolescentulus,
quum jam tu fama gloriaque floreres" (Ep. vii. 20); nor of their being, "all but contemporaries
in age": "duos homines, aetate propemodum aequales" (Ep. vii. 20). From these remarks chiefly
and a few other circumstances, the modern biographers of Tacitus suppose there was a difference
of ten or eleven years between that ancient historian and Pliny, and fix the date of his birth
about A.D. 52.

This is reconcilable with the belief of Tacitus being the author of the Annals; for when the
boundaries of Rome are spoken of in that work as being extended to the Red Sea in terms as
if it were a recent extension--"claustra ... Romani imperii, quod nunc Rubrum ad mare patescit"
(ii. 61),--he would be 63, the extension having been effected as we learn from Xiphilinus,
by Trajan A.D. 115. It is also reconcilable with Agricola when Consul offering to him his daughter
in marriage, he being then "a young man": "Consul egregiae tum spei filiam juveni mihi despondit"
(Agr. 9); for, according as Agricola was Consul A.D. 76 or 77, he would be 24 or 25. But it
is by no means reconcilable with the time when he administered the several offices in the State.
He tells us himself that he "began holding office under Vespasian, was promoted by Titus, and
still further advanced by Domitian": "dignitatem nostram a Vespasiano inchoatam, a Tito auctam,
a Domitiano longius provectam" (Hist. i. 1). To have "held office" under Vespasian he must
have been quaestor; to have been "promoted" by Titus he must have been aedile; and as for his
further advancement we know that he was praetor under Domitian. By the Lex Villia Annalis,
passed by the Tribune Lucius Villius during the time of the Republic in 573 after the Building
of the City, the years were fixed wherein the different offices were to be entered on--in the
language of Livy; "eo anno rogatio primum lata est ab Lucio Villio tribuno plebis, quot annos
nati quemque magistratum peterent caperentque" (xl. 44); and the custom was never departed
from, in conformity with Ovid's statement in his Fasti with respect to the mature years of
those who legislated for his countrymen, and the special enactment which strictly prescribed
the age when Romans could be candidates for public offices:

    "Jura dabat populo senior, finitaque certis
    Legibus est aetas, unde petatur honos."
    Fast. v. 65-6.

After the promulgation of his famous plebiscitum by the old Tribune of the People in the year
179 A.C., a Roman could not fill the office of quaestor till he was 31, nor aedile till he
was 37,--as, guided by the antiquaries, Sigonius and Pighius, Doujat, the Delphin editor of
Livy, states: "quaestores ante annum aetatis trigesimum primum non crearentur, nec aediles
curules ante septimum ac trigesimum";--and the ages for the two offices were usually 32 and 38.

From Vespasian's rule extending to ten years we cannot arrive at the date when Tacitus was
quaestor; but we can guess when he was aedile, as Titus was emperor only from the spring of
79 to the autumn of 81.

Had his appointment to the aedileship taken place on the last day of the reign of Titus, he
would then be but 29 years old; and though in the time of the Emperors, after the year 9 of
our aera, there might be a remission of one or more years by the Lex Julia or the Lex Pappia
Poppaea, those laws enacted rewards and privileges to encourage marriage and the begetting
of children; the remission could, therefore, be in favour only of married men, especially those
who had children; so that any such indulgence in the competition for the place of honours could
not have been granted to Tacitus, he not being, as will be immediately seen, yet married. In
order, then, that he should have been aedile under Titus,--even admitting that he could boast,
like Cicero, of having obtained all his honours in the prescribed years--"omnes honores anno
suo"--and been aedile the moment he was qualified by age for the office,--he must have been
born, at least, as far back as the year 44.

This will be reconcilable with all that Pliny says, as well as with his being married when
"young"; for he would then be 32 or 33, and his bride 22 or 23; for the daughter of Agricola
was born when her father was quaestor in Asia--"sors quaesturae provinciam Asiam dedit ...
auctus est ibi filia." (Agr. 9). Nor let it be supposed that a Roman would not have used the
epithet "young" to a man of 32 or 33, seeing that the Romans applied the term to men in their
best years, from 20 to 40, or a little under or over. Hence Livy terms Alexander the Great
at the time of his death, when he was 31, "a young man," "egregium ducem fuisse Alexandrum
... adolescens ... decessit" (ix. 17): so Cicero styles Lucius Crassus at the age of 34;--"talem
vero exsistere eloquentiam qualis fuerit in Crasso et Antonio ... alter non multum (quod quidem
exstaret), et id ipsum adolescens, alter nihil admodum scripti reliquisset". (De Orat. ii.
2): so also does Cornelius Nepos speak of Marcus Brutus, when the latter was praetor, Brutus
being then 43 years of age:--"sic Marco Bruto usus est, ut nullo ille adolescens aequali familiarius"
(Att. 8); to this passage of Nepos's, Nicholas Courtin, his Delphin editor, adds that the ancients
called men "young" from the age of 17 to the age of 46; notwithstanding that Varro limited
youth to 30 years:--"a 17 ad 46 annum, adolescentia antiquitus pertingebat, ut ab antiquis
observatum est. Nihilominus Varro ad 30 tantum pertingere ait." But Tacitus being born in 44
is not reconcilable with his being the Author of the Annals, as thus:--

Some time in the nineteen years that Trajan was Emperor,--from 98 to ll7,--Tacitus, being then
between the ages of 54 and 73, composed his History. He paused when he had carried it on to
the reign of Domitian; the narrative had then extended to twenty-three years, and was comprised
in "thirty books," if we are to believe St. Jerome in his Commentary on the Fourteenth Chapter
of Zechariah:

"Cornelius Tacitus ... post Augustum usque ad mortem Domitiani vitas Caesarum triginta voluminibus
exaravit." [Endnote 013] It was scarcely possible for Tacitus to have executed his History
in a shorter compass;--indeed, it is surprising that the compass was so short, looking at the
probability of his having observed the symmetry attended to by the ancients in their writings,
and having continued his work on the plan he pursued at the commencement, the important fragment
which we have of four books, and a part of the fifth, embracing but little more than one year.
Whether he ever carried into execution the design he had reserved for his old age,--writing
of Nerva and Trajan,--we have no record. But two things seem tolerably certain; that he would
have gone on with that continuation to his History in preference to writing the Annals; and
that he would not have written that continuation until after the death of the Emperor Trajan.
He would then have been 73. Now, how long would he have been on that separate history? Then
at what age could he have commenced the Annals? And how long would he have been engaged in
its composition? We see that he must have been bordering on 80, if not 90: consequently with
impaired faculties, and thus altogether disqualified for producing such a vigorous historical
masterpiece; for though we have instances of poets writing successfully at a very advanced
age, as Pindar composing one of his grandest lyrics at 84, and Sophocles his Oedipus Coloneus
at 90, we have no instance of any great historian, except Livy, attempting to write at a very
old age, and then Livy rambled into inordinate diffuseness.

II. The silence maintained with respect to the Annals by all writers till the first half of
the fifteenth century is much more striking than chronology in raising the very strongest suspicion
that Tacitus did not write that book. This is the more remarkable as after the first publication
of the last portion of that work by Vindelinus of Spire at Venice in 1469 or 1470, all sorts
and degrees of writers began referring to or quoting the Annals, and have continued doing so
to the present day with a frequency which has given to its supposed writer as great a celebrity
as any name in antiquity. Kings, princes, ministers and politicians have studied it with diligence
and curiosity, while scholars, professors, authors and historians in Italy, Spain, France,
England, Holland, Germany, Denmark and Sweden have applied their minds to it with an enthusiasm,
which has been like a kind of worship. Yet, after the most minute investigation, it cannot
be discovered that a single reference was made to the Annals by any person from the time when
Tacitus lived until shortly before the day when Vindelinus of Spire first ushered the last
six books to the admiring world from the mediaeval Athens. When it appeared it was at once
pronounced to be the brightest gem among histories; its author was greeted as a most wonderful
man,--the "unique historian", for so went the phrase--"inter historicos unicus."

Now, are we to be asked quietly to believe that there never lived from the first quarter of
the second century till after the second quarter of the fifteenth, a single individual possessed
of sufficient capacity to discern such eminent and obvious excellence as is contained in the
Annals? Are we to believe that that could have been so? in a slowly revolving cycle of 1,000
years and more? ay, upwards of 1,300! If that really was the case, it is enough to strike us
dumb with stupor in contemplating such a miraculous instance of perpetuated inanity,--among
the lettered, too!--the learned! the studious! the critical! If that was not the case, what
a long neglect! Anyhow, the silence is inexplicable. It indicates one of two things,--duncelike
stupidity or studious contempt. Both these surmises must be dismissed,--the first as too absurd,
the second as too improbable. There can arise a third conjecture--Taste for intellectual achievements,
and appreciation of literary merit, had vanished for awhile from the earth, to return after
an absence of forty generations of mankind. Again, this supposed probability is too preposterously
extravagant to be for an instant credited because it cannot for a moment be comprehended. In
short, how marvellous it is! how utterly unaccountable! how inexpressibly mysterious!

Pliny does not say a word about the Annals. The earliest Latin father, Tertullian, quotes only
the History (Apol. c. 16). St. Jerome, in his Commentary on Zechariah (iii. 14), cites the
passage in the fifth book of the History about the origin of the Jews; he also notices what
Tacitus says of another important event, the Fall of Jerusalem, which, having occurred in the
reign of Vespasian, must have been narrated in the History. The "single book" treating of the
Caesars, which Vopiscus says Tacitus wrote, must have been the "History," ten copies of which
the Emperor Tacitus ordered to be placed every year in the public libraries among the national
archives. (Tac. Imp. x.) Orosius, the Spanish ecclesiastic, who flourished at the commencement
of the fifth century, has several references to Tacitus in his famous work, Hormesta. This
great proficient in knowledge of the Scriptures and disciple of St. Augustin quotes the fifth
book of the History thrice (Lib. V., cc. 5 and 10), and thrice alludes to facts recorded by
Tacitus,--the Temple of Janus being open from the time of Augustus to Vespasian (vii. 3);--the
number of the Jews who perished at the siege of Jerusalem (vii. 9); and the possibly large
number of Romans who were killed in the wars with the Daci during the reign of Domitian (vii.
10):--all which passages must have been in the lost portions of the History.

In his Epistles and Poems, that man of wit and fancy, with an intellect and learning above
the fifth century in which he lived, --Sidonius Apollinaris,--has one quotation from Tacitus
and three references to him. The quotation, which occurs in the fourteenth chapter of the fourth
book of his Epistles, is from the last section of the History, (that part of the speech of
Civilis where the seditious Batavian touches on the friendship which existed between himself
and Vespasian); and his three references are, first, to the "ancient mode of narrative," combined
with the greatest "literary excellence" (iv. 22); secondly, to "genius for eloquence" (Carm.
xxiii. 153-4); and thirdly, to "pomp of manner" (Carm. ii. 192); the not inelegant Christian
writer enumerating qualities that specially commend themselves in the History. When Spartian
praises Tacitus for "good faith," the eulogy is more appropriate to the writer of the History
than the Annals, howbeit that so many moderns, including the famous philologist and polygrapher,
Justus Lipsius; the Pomeranian scholar of the last century, Meierotto; Boetticher and Prutz
all question the veracity of Tacitus; while for what he says of the Jews Tertullian vituperates
him in language so outrageous as to be altogether unbecoming the capacious mind of the Patristic
worthy, who calls him, "the most loquacious of liars,"--"mendaciorum loquacissimus;" --in which
strain of calumny he was, from the same cause of religious fervour, followed centuries after,--in
the seventeenth,--by two of the most renowned preachers and orators of their day, the famous
Jesuit, Famianus Strada, and his less known contemporary, but most able Chamberlain of Urban
VIII., Augustino Mascardi,--as if all these pious Christians found it quite impossible to pardon
a heathen, blinded by the prejudices of paganism, for believing what he did of the Hebrews;
and for recording which belief he ought to receive immediate forgiveness, seeing that Justin,
Plutarch, Strabo and Democritus said as bad, if not worse things of that ancient people and
their sacred books. [Endnote 019]

Cassiodorus, the Senator, is the only writer of the sixth century, who makes any allusion to
Tacitus, and that but once, in the fifth book of his Epistles, to what the Roman says in his
Germany of the origin of amber, about which naturalists are still divided, that it is a distillation
from certain trees. Freculphus (otherwise written Radulphus), Bishop of Lisieux, who died in
the middle of the ninth century (856), in the second volume of his Chronicles, --the sixth
chapter of the second book,--quotes Tacitus as the author of the History, the passage being
in reference to the Romans who fell in the Dacian war. We have no proof that the Annals was
in existence in the twelfth century from what John of Salisbury says in his Polycraticon (viii.
18), that Tacitus is among the number of those historians, "qui tyrannorum atrocitates et exitus
miseros plenius scribunt;" for in his completed History Tacitus must have expatiated pretty
freely on the "atrocious tyranny" of Domitian, and the "unfortunate termination of the lives
of tyrants."

From the time of John of Salisbury till shortly before the publication of the Annals, no further
reference is made to Tacitus by any writer or historian, monkish or otherwise, not even of
erudite Germany, beginning with Abbot Hermannus, who wrote in the twelfth century the history
of his own monastery of St. Martin's at Dornick, and ending with Caspar Bruschius, who, in
the sixteenth century, wrote an Epitome of the Archbishoprics and Bishoprics of Germany, and
the Centuria Prima (as Daniel Nessel in the next century wrote the Centuria Secunda) of the
German monasteries. And yet in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, all kinds of writers
quote the Annals about as freely and frequently as they quote the History, and that not once
or twice, but five or six, and even seven and eight times, in the same work. It would be impossible
to mention them all, the writers being "as numerous as the leaves in Vallambrosa's vale";--a
figure that can hardly be considered hyperbolic when the enormous number of these writers can
be partially guessed from the following catalogue of those who delighted in antiquarian researches,
whose productions cited are archaeological, and who made all their references to the Annals
for the purpose of merely illustrating archaic matters; nevertheless, the number of such writers
alone amounts to as many as a score; moreover, the whole twenty are to be found in one compilation
comprised in but five volumes,--Polenus's New Supplement to the collections of Graevius and
Gronovius, entitled "Utriusque Thesauri Antiquitatum Romanarum Graecarumque Nova Supplementa";--the
Friesland scholar, Titus Popma in his "De Operis Servorum"; the Italian antiquary, Lorenzo
Pignorio, Canon of Trevigo, in his treatise "De Servis"; the renowned critic, Salmasius, in
his explanation of two ancient inscriptions found on a Temple in the island of Crete ("Notae
ad Consecrationem Templi in Agro Herodis Attici Triopio"); Peter Burmann in his "De Vectigalibus";
Albertinus Barrisonus in his "De Archivis"; Merula, the jurist, historian and polygrapher,
in his "De Legibus Romanorum"; Carolus Patinus in his Commentary "In Antiquum Monumentum Marcellinae";
Polletus in his "Historia Fori Romani"; Aegyptius in his "De Bacchanalibus Explicatio"; Gisbert
Cuper in his "Monumenta Antiqua Inedita"; Octavius Ferrarius in his "Dissertatio de Gladiatoribus";
William a Loon in his "Eleutheria"; Schaeffer in his "De Re Vehiculari"; Johannes Jacobus Claudius
in his "Diatribe de Nutricibus et Paedagogis"; Antonius Bombardinus in his "De Carcere Tractatus";
Gutherlethus in his work on the "Salii," or Priests of Mars; the learned Spaniard, Miniana,
in his "De Theatro Saguntino Dialogus"; Gorius in his "Columbarium Libertorum et Servorum";
Spon in his "Miscellanea Erudita Antiquitatis" and Jaques Leroy in his "Achates Tiberianus."
In fact, the Annals of Tacitus is noticed, or quoted, or referred to, or commented upon at
length (as at the commencement of the sixteenth century by Scipione Ammirato), in an endless
list of works, with or without the names of the authors, which by itself is all but conclusive
that the Annals was not in existence till the fifteenth century, and not generally known till
the sixteenth and seventeenth.

But to return for a moment to what was done by two writers, who lived before the fifteenth
century,--Sulpicius Severus, who died A.D. 420; and Jornandez, who, in the time of Justinian,
was Secretary to the Gothic kings in Italy. Now, it must not be withheld,--for it would be
too uncandid,--that identical passages are found in the Annals ascribed to Tacitus and the
Sacred History of Sulpicius Severus.

In order that the reader may see the identity of the passages, we place them in juxtaposition,
italicising the words that are found in both works:--

Sulpicius (ii. 28). "Inditum imperatori flammeum, dos et genialis torus et faces nuptiales;
cuncta denique, quae vel in feminis non sine verecundia conspiciuntur, spectata."

Annals (xv. 37). "Inditum imperatori flammeum, visi auspices, dos et genialis torus et faces
nuptiales; cuncta denique spectata, quae etiam in femina nox operit."

Sulpicius (ii. 29). "Sed opinio omnium invidiam incendii in principem retorquebat, credebaturque
imperator gloriam innovandae urbis quaesisse."

Annals (xv. 10). "Videbaturque Nero condendae urbis novae et cognomento suo adpellandae gloriam
quaerere."

Sulpicius (v. 2). "Quin et novae mortes excogitatae, ut ferarum tergis contecti laniatu canum
interirent. Multi crucibus affixi, aut flamma usti. Plerique in id reservati, ut, CUM defecisset
dies, in usum nocturni luminis urerentur."

Annals (xv. 44). "Et pereuntibus addita ludibria, ut ferarum tergis contecti, laniatu canum
interirent, aut crucibus affixi, aut flammandi, atque, UBI defecisset dies, in usum nocturni
luminis urerentur."

These passages, of course, have, till this moment, been regarded as taken by Sulpicius Severus
from the Annals, on the unquestioned assumption that that work was the composition of Tacitus.
The passages, however, were taken from the Historia Sacra: they bear traces of having been
so appropriated, from Sulpicius Severus composing with a harmony almost equal to Tacitus, and
a grammatical correctness on a par with the Roman, while the author of the Annals mars that
harmony, here by the change of a word, and there by the reconstruction of a sentence; and the
grammatical correctness by substituting for "cum," which strictly signifies "when," "ubi,"
which strictly signifies "where": hence, from resembling Tacitus less than Sulpicius Severus,
he seems, of two writers convicted of plagiarism, to be the one who purloined the passages
from the other; and if he introduced but trifling alterations, it was because the accomplished
presbyter of the fifth century was the master of a neat Latin style, which will bear comparison
with that of the best classical writers. Indeed, Sulpicius Severus is likened for style and
eloquence to Sallust; he is known as the "Christian Sallust"; and Leclerc in the twentieth
volume of his Bibliotheque Choisie, is loud in praise of his Latin, which is, certainly, purer
than could have been imagined for his time. He was, nevertheless the very last authority that
the author of the Annals ought to have followed for authentic particulars with respect to Nero;
for as that emperor was the first persecutor of the Christians, there was nothing too bad that
the church-building ecclesiastical writer did not think it right to state of him, as (in his
own language) "the worst, not only of princes, but of all mankind, and even brute beasts";
he went, in fact, to the extreme length of believing, being a ridiculously credulous Chiliast,
that Nero would live again as Anti-Christ in the millennian kingdom before the end of the world.

It is generally supposed that Jornandez,--whose works are so valuable for their history of
the fifth and sixth centuries of our aera,--when speaking, in the second chapter of his History
of the Goths, of one "Cornelius as the author of Annals," is speaking of Tacitus,--"Cornelius
etiam Annalium scriptor." Camden in his Britannia questions whether Tacitus is meant by "Cornelius";
and, certainly the passage quoted, which is about Meneg in Cornwall, is nowhere to be found
in any of the works written by the ancient Roman. But if Tacitus be meant, the passage is an
interpolation, because the historical books ascribed to Tacitus bear in all the MSS. either
the title "Augustae Historiae Libri," or "Ab Excessu divi Augusti Historiarum Libri," and so
in all the first published editions--that of Vindelinus of Spire about 1470, of Puteolanus
and Lanterius about 1475, of Beroaldus in 1515, and the early editions of Venice 1484, 1497
and 1512; of Rome in 1485; Milan 1517; Basle 1519, and Florence (the Juntine Edition) 1527--it
not being till 1533, that Beatus Rhenanus first gave those books the name "Annals" (it being
Justus Lipsius who, close at the commencement of the last quarter of that century,--in 1574,--first
divided the books into two parts, to one of which he gave the name "Annals," and to the other,
"Histories"). Then how could Jornandez, who lived in the sixth century, have known any writings
of Tacitus by the name of "Annals," when that title was not given to them until the sixteenth
century?

We may now, after close research, advance this with extreme caution, and certainty:--no support
can be derived from citations or statements made by any writer till the fifteenth century that
Tacitus wrote a number of books of the Annals. Should any one extensively read known authors,
living between the second and the fifteenth century, besides those mentioned, who quote Tacitus,
it will be found that their quotations are from the History, the Germany, or the Agricola;
and this can be predicted with just as much confidence, as an astronomer predicts eclipses
of the sun and the moon, and, for their verification, needs not wait to see the actual obscuration
of those heavenly bodies.

III. In turning to the different MSS., we find that the age of all of them confirms in an equally
corroborative manner the theory that Tacitus did not write the Annals. Here let it be noted
that the age of a MS. can easily be discovered; and that, too, in a variety of ways:--by the
formation of the characters, such as the roundness of the letters; or their largeness or smallness;--the
writing of the final l's; the use of the Gothic s's and the Gothic j's; the dotting, or no
dotting of the i's; the absence or presence of diphthongs; the length of the lines; the punctuation;
the accentuation; the form or size; the parchment or the paper; the ink;--or some other mode
of detection. Those MSS. need only be examined which contain either the whole or the concluding
books of the Annals.

Of the seven MSS. in the Vatican, that numbered 1,864, (referred to by John Frederic Gronovius,
and other editors of Tacitus as the "Farnesian," from its having been transferred from the
Farnese Palace to the Vatican,) is supposed to be the oldest, for it is believed to be of the
fourteenth century; but the vellum on which it is written is of the sixteenth; so is the vellum
of No. 1,422. No. 1,863 was thought by Justus Lipsius to be almost as old as No. 1,864, to
have been of the close of the fourteenth century; but it is written on vellum of the middle
of the fifteenth century. Nothing can be ascertained, either from its form or the substance
on which it is written, of No. 2,965, but the Bipontine editors declared its date to be 1449.
No. 1,958, which Puteolanus used in 1475, for his edition (containing the concluding books
of the Annals) was copied at Genoa in the year 1448. The two others, numbered 412 and 1,478,
are both written on vellum of the fifteenth century.

The oldest Paris MS. is in the Bibliotheque Nationale, and is written on paper of the close
of the fifteenth century. Nobody knows what has become of the MS., which is supposed to have
been anterior to the editions at the end of the fifteenth century, and was in the library of
the Congregation de l'Oratoire, to whom it was presented by Henri Harlai de Sancy, who brought
it from Italy and died in the Oratory in 1667.

The MS. of Wolfenbuttel (Guelferbytana), used by Ernesti in his edition, was bought at Ferrara
on the 28th of September, 1461; beyond that nothing is known of it. The MS. in the library
of Jesus College, Oxford, is of the year 1458; the Bodleian, numbered 2,764, is of the century
after, though the great Benedictine antiquary, Montfaucon, in that monument of labour and erudition,
Bibliotheca Bibliothecarum MSS. Nova, is of opinion that it is as old as 1463; and that in
the Harleian collection of MSS. in the British Museum, also numbered 2,764, stated to date
back to 1412, can scarcely be older than 1440 or 1450, from the diphthongal writing, first
introduced by Guarino of Verona, who died in 1460. The MS. of Grenoble, written on very fine
vellum, and containing the whole of the Annals, is of the sixteenth century. The three Medicean,
the Neapolitan and the other Italian MSS. are all of very modern writing. As to the MSS. of
Wurzburg and Mirandola, the former is not to be found, and the latter was not in existence
even in the time of Justus Lipsius.

The four most important MSS. are those known as the First and Second Florence, the Buda and
that from which Vindelinus of Spire published the last six books. The two oldest are the "Second
Florence" and the "Buda." It would seem that the "Second Florence", from the note at the end,
dates back to the year 395, though the Benedictines in their Nouveau Traite de Diplomatique
(vol. iii. pp. 278-9) thought they recognized in it a Lombard writing of the tenth or eleventh
century; Ernesti modified that to the ninth; others again changed it to the seventh and even
the sixth; but it will be shown to satisfaction in the course of this treatise that it belongs
to the fifteenth century. So the Buda MS., believed by Justus Lipsius to be as ancient as the
Second Florence (which he thought with the Benedictines was of the tenth or eleventh century)
was considered by James Gronovius to be very modern; and very modern it is, being traceable
to a little after the same period as the Second Florence, namely, the fifteenth century. The
First Florence, which was stated to have been found in the Abbey of Corvey, and which furnished
the opening six books of the Annals as first given to the world by Beroaldus, is of an age
that has hitherto never been determined; but that age will be shown, towards the close of this
work, to be the first quarter of the sixteenth century. The MS. from which Vindelinus of Spire
published his edition, was in the Library of St Mark's, Venice, but,--according, to Croll and
Exter,--it is no longer to be found.

The case, then, stands thus with respect to the MSS.;--no MS. of the works of Tacitus, whose
existence can be traced back further than the sixteenth century, contains the whole of the
Annals; and no MS. of the works of Tacitus, whose existence can be traced back further than
the first half of the preceding century, has the closing books of the Annals.

Here let me briefly recapitulate;--it being very important for the reader to bear in mind that
three things have now been shown:-- first, that, from the chronological point of view, Tacitus
could barely have written the Annals; secondly, that, from the silence preserved about that
book by all writers for upwards of 1300 years from the death of Tacitus, there is cause for
supposing it was not in existence from his time, that is, the second century to the fifteenth
and sixteenth (the commencement of the fifteenth century being the time of the forgery of the
last six books, and the commencement of the sixteenth the time of the publication of the forged
first six books);--and thirdly, that there is nothing to contradict this theory of mine in
the age of any of the known MSS. containing a part, or the whole of the Annals; but, on the
contrary, to verify it, from the age of the oldest being limited to the fifteenth century;
and that if there be, or ever have been others older, it is singular, and puzzling to account
for, that one of two things should have occurred; either that they are lost, or else that their
age cannot be determined,--both which latter things are actually the case with respect to the
two MSS. from which the Annals was originally printed,--that which supplied the concluding
books being lost, and that which contains the whole of it being of an age that nobody up till
now has been able to determine.

I. I have now so far cleared the way as to be in a fair position to enter with feasibleness
into an investigation of the Annals, with the view of proving that it was not written by Tacitus.
Take, for example, the noble art of printing; for inventing it any man of genius might reasonably
be proud. His name, if known, would be emblazoned on the scroll of imperishable fame; be displayed
for ever on the highest pyramid of mind; and his country would receive an additional beam of
splendor to its previous blaze of renown. But who, for a certainty, knows the inventor of printing?
or the country of its origin? Was it Holland in the person of Coster of Haarlem? Or Germany
in the person of Mentel, the nobleman, of Strasburg? Or Guttenberg, the goldsmith, of Mayence?
Was it neither of these countries? or none of these men? And why this uncertainty? Because
a few men possessing the secret, which they kept cautiously to themselves, of printing by means
of movable blocks of wood, preferred accumulating enormous sums, equivalent to fair fortunes,
by receiving five, six and even between seven and eight hundred gold sequins from a King of
France or a Pope of Rome, a Cardinal or an Archbishop, for a bible, which, printed, was passed
off as written. We all know how the whole imposture exploded, by the King of France and the
Archbishop of Paris comparing the bibles which they had bought of Faust during his stay at
the Soleil d'Or in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris. Each thought his bible so superb that the whole
world could not produce such another for beauty,--the books being fine vellum copies of what
are now known as the Mazarin Bible;--and what was their amazement on discovering, after a very
close comparison, that everything was exactly alike in the two copies,--the flower-pieces in
gold, green and blue, with grouped and single birds amid tendrils and leaves, the illuminated
letters at the beginning of books with variegated embellishments and brilliant hues of scarlet
and azure, the crimson initials to each chapter and sentence, along with astonishing and incomprehensible
conformity in letters, words, pagination and lines on every page.

II. So long as the work had an appearance of high antiquity, it passed muster as an old classic;
and no doubt could be entertained of its genuineness, if, in addition to its ancient look,
it was brought in a fragmentary form. We have no history of the last six fragmentary books
of the Annals--at least, up to this time; though I shall give it towards the end of this inquiry;
but we are told all about the discovery of the fragmentary first six books by Meibomius, the
Westphalian historian, and Professor of Poetry and History at Helmstaedt at the close of the
sixteenth century in his Opuscula Historica Rerum Germianicarum, while telling the story of
the life of Witikind, the monk of the Abbey of Corvey; by Justus Lipsius in note 34 to the
second book of the Annals; by Brotier, and other editors of Tacitus.

John de Medici, that magnificent Pope, had been scarcely elected to the Pontifical chair by
the title of Leo X. in the spring of 1513, when he caused it to be publicly made known that
he would increase the price of rewards given by his predecessors to persons who procured new
MS. copies of ancient Greek and Roman works. More than a year, nearly two years elapsed; then
his own "Thesaurum Quaestor Pontificius"--"steward," "receiver," or "collector",-- Angelo Arcomboldi,
brought to him a new MS. of the works of Tacitus, with a most startling novelty--THE FIRST
SIX (or, as then divided, FIVE) BOOKS OF THE ANNALS! Everybody was amazed; and everybody was
extremely anxious to know where and how it had been obtained. The story of Arcomboldi was that
he had found the stranger among the treasures on the well-stored shelves in the Library of
the Benedictine monastery on the banks of the Weser, at Corvey, in Westphalia, long famed for
the high culture of its learned inmates. The MS. was given out as being of great antiquity,
traceable to, at the very least, the commencement of the ninth century; for it was said to
have belonged to one of the most distinguished and accomplished scholars of the abbey, Anschaire,
whom Gregory IV. in the year 835 appointed his Legate Apostolic in Denmark and Sweden, and
who Christianized the whole northern parts of Europe. The MS. was conned with care: it was
musty, discoloured and antique-looking; furthermore, it was of the usual orthodox nature of
recovered ancient MSS.--it was fragmentary: the genius of Tacitus was believed to be detected
in the newly found books: 500 gold sequins were counted out from the Papal Treasury to the
greedy discoverer: at the expense of Leo, the scholastic Philippo Beroaldi the Younger, who
was Professor of the learned languages in the University of Rome, and who wrote Latin lyric
poetry (in the opinion of Paulus Jovius) with the elegance and correctness of Horace, superintended
the text; the celebrated Stephen Guilleret came all the way from Lorraine to print it; and
the "Historiarum Libri quinque nuper in Germania inventi" were ushered forth to the world in
Rome literis rotundis on the first day of March, 1515. From that day to this the imposture
has slumbered; the counterfeit coin has passed current, nobody having noticed the absence of
the true ring of the genuine metal.

III. The books of the Annals must not merely be assumed to be forgeries; they must be proved
to be so; for, if forgeries, they cannot be as invulnerable as walls of adamant. It is nothing
that nobody has suspected they were forged;--nothing that the editors and commentators, who,
for the most part possessed of remarkable perspicacity and discernment, have applied their
minds to minute revision and close examination of these books, have, after such diligent attention
never considered them to be spurious, but belonging to the domain of true history;--nothing
that they have stood for close on four hundred years unchallenged, deceiving the wisest and
the most learned as well as the best and the most experienced in matters of this description.
The cause is obvious: the forger fabricated with the decided determination of defying detection.
He did not rely upon his own sagacity alone: he called in the assistance of two of his cleverest
friends: three of the astutest men in the most enlightened portion then of Europe,-- Italy,--sat
in conclave over the matter for nearly three years, deliberating in every possible way how
to avoid suspicious management and faulty performance: consequently, the forgery is anything
but plain and palpable; nay, it is wonderfully obscure and monstrously difficult: nevertheless,
like all forged documents, it is bungled--ay, in spite of the pains taken to keep free from
bad and blundering work, it is, occasionally (as will be seen in the present book, from this
point until the close), clumsily, awkwardly, grossly, ridiculously bungled.

In the last generation there was a famous trial for forgery in Edinburgh. A number of documents,
thirty-three, were impounded as forged to obtain for the forger the title of a Scotch Earl
and domains covering many millions of acres,--a larger area of square miles than were included
in the whole united territories of the now dethroned Dukes of Tuscany, Parma and Modena, or
all the possessions put together of the German Electors, Margraves and Landgraves. In such
a number of legal documents executed by one man, and that man, too, a civilian, it was almost
next to an impossibility that there should not be a good deal of bungling. One of the blunders
was the King of Scotland giving away lands and provinces that never belonged to Scotland, for
they were lands and provinces in New England; another was the name of Archbishop Spottiswoode
as witness to a document executed by King James I. at Whitehall on the 7th of December, 1639,
whereas Archbishop Spottiswoode had been dead eleven days, his monument in Westminster Abbey
bearing as the date of his death, the 26th of November in that year. So the author of the Annals,
who, as will be hereafter shown, lived in the fifteenth century, could not possibly write many
books of ancient Roman History without, every now and then doing or saying something that was
attended with dreadful fatality to his fraud; for he could not write them without palpable
blunders; and some are so clumsy as to surpass conception what bungling can do.

IV. He makes Tacitus commit an error about the contents of the Twelve Tables, which is really
as monstrous as if we could fancy ourselves reading in the pages of a native historian of mark,
Hume, Henry, or Lingard, some blunder, into which a schoolboy could not fall, about the contents
of Magna Charta, the Bill of Rights, the Declaration of Rights, or any other well known English
law, on which the constitution of the country is primarily founded. In a work given out as
written by Tacitus we are told that the Twelve Tables first fixed interest for usury at an
"uncia," or twelfth part of an as per hundred asses per month, or one per cent per annum:--"Primo
Duodecim Tabulis sanctum 'ne quis unciario foenore amplius exerceret,' cum antea ex libidine
locupletium agitaretur" (An. VI. 16). Into this error the Author of the Annals must surely
have been seduced by some shocking mediaeval writer of ancient Roman history or antiquities,
under whose guidance he again falls into another mistake when ascribing to tribunitian regulations
the reduction of the interest to one-half per cent. per annum, or the sixth part of an as per
hundred asses a month:--"dein rogatione tribuncia ad semuncias redacta" (L. c.). The truth
is that, in the year of Rome 398, a hundred and four years after the Twelve Tables were composed,--the
Tribunes Duillius and Moenius passed the original law of interest at one per cent: twelve years
after,--in the year 410,--the interest was reduced to one half per cent. under the consulate
of Lucius Manlius Torquatus and Caius Plautius;--as may be seen by referring to the seventh
book (16, 27) of Livy,--or still better, the clear exposition of this error by Montesquieu
in the 22nd chapter of the 22nd book of his "Esprit des Loix." The author of the Annals is
then only right when stating that originally the interest was one per cent. per annum, and
afterwards reduced to half that amount. In everything else he blunders to an extent that is
inexplicable in an ancient Roman. Were any staunch upholder of the authenticity of the Annals
to be here called upon compulsorily to give a reason, unprepared or premeditated, plausible
or probable, why, after this exposure of such an error, he still believed it possible that
the blunder could have been made by Tacitus, who achieved a brilliant reputation as an historian
writing truthfully of his countrymen, as a lawyer practising successfully among them, as a
statesman filling with ability exalted offices, and thus possessed such pledges for being admirably
informed and exceedingly cautious, he would be reluctantly forced to take refuge in the quibbling
of Shakespeare's Sir John Falstaff: --"I would not tell you on compulsion. Give you a reason
on compulsion! If reasons were as plenty as blackberries, I would give no man a reason on compulsion,
I!"

The Twelve Tables are most fatal for the author of the Annals; they bring out his imposture
so clearly to the broad glare of noonday. Tacitus is made to place on record for the enlightenment
of posterity that, after those Tables were composed, his countrymen ceased making just and
equal laws, only occasionally penal enactments; but more frequently, on account of the differences
between the two orders, decrees for attaining illegitimate honours and for banishing distinguished
citizens, along with other sinister legislation:--"Compositae Duodecim Tabulae, finis aequi
juris; nam secutae leges, etsi aliquando in maleficos ex delicto, saepius tamen dissensione
ordinum, et apiscendi illicitos honores, aut pellendi claros viros, aliaque ob prava, per vim
latae sunt" (III. 27). The statement is about as contrary to fact as if an English historian
were to assert that after Charles I. assented to the Petition of Rights, there was an end to
all further enlargement in this country of the rights, liberties and privileges of the subject,--the
only laws passed since then being for the repression of crime, the mitigation of the penal
code, and the establishment of religious equality; because if we set aside all the laws that
were passed by the Romans for the bettering of their State after the year 449 before our aera,--which
is the date of the composition of the Twelve Tables,--and look only at those which extended
social equality, we find enactments "aequi juris," such as the Lex Canuleia which allowed the
intermarriage of patricians and plebeians, and the Leges Liciniae, which put both orders on
a par in holding public offices. It is clear that these laws never came to the knowledge of
the author of the Annals; and it is for the reader to decide for himself whether he thinks
it likely that a lawyer and statesman of the stamp of Tacitus could have been ignorant of the
removal of these weighty and vexatious class inconveniences.

V. Had Tacitus written the Annals, he would have known more of the speech which Claudius spake
in the Senate (XI. 24), when the inhabitants of Transalpine Gaul petitioned to be rendered
eligible to the highest offices of the State, than to direct the eloquence of the Emperor in
favour of all the extra-provincial Gauls in general, and the Aedui in particular. From the
way in which he wrote harangues--that of Galgacus in his Agricola, for instance, --he would
have caught in his alembic the essence of the original, and sublimated it; but he would not
have placed before us an offspring that does not reflect one feature of its parent. Yet that
is what the author of the Annals did with the speech of Claudius: he fabricated that which
bears not the faintest resemblance to the original. If the assumption be considered as true
that he forged the Annals, he could not have done otherwise; for when he was engaged in the
business of forgery, the speech was not in existence, it not being until 1528, more than a
hundred years after the Eleventh Book of the Annals was written by him, and considerably over
half a century after it was first printed in Venice, that a copy of the speech of the Emperor
Claudius, which had long been lost, was found again buried within the earth at Lyons, and as
so discovered is still preserved, engraved on two brass plates in the vestibule of the Town
Hall of Lyons, a lasting memento of the modern fabrication of the Annals.

VI. The author of the Annals ascribes to Brutus the creation of the second class of nobility,
which Brutus no more created than (as Famianus Strada observes,) "Pythagoras originated the
idea of the transmigration of souls." The statement that "few were left of the families to
which Romulus gave the title, the 'gentes majores,' or 'old clans,' and Lucius Brutus the 'gentes
minores,' or 'young clans'":--"paucis jam reliquis familiarum, quas Romulus 'majorum,' et Lucius
Brutus 'minorum gentium' adpellaverant" (XI.25):--could never have been written by a Roman;
because, in the first place, it was not Romulus who created the whole patrician body known
as the "majores gentes"; the only senators whom he created were the "decuriones," or heads
of the various "gentes" of the united Romans and Sabines; to these Tullus Hostilius added the
most distinguished citizens of the Albans, when they were removed to Rome in his reign;--and
it was the united descendants of these two sets of patricians who were called by subsequent
generations "patricii majorum gentium": in the second place, it was Tarquinius Priscus who
enlarged the patrician body by creating the 100 representatives of the Luceres, or Etruscans,
senators, and it was the descendants of these who were "called," by way of distinction from
the others, "patricii minorum gentium." The new sort of nobility which originated with Brutus
was a very different kind of thing: the new eminence or dignity conferred on the senators elected
by Brutus was confined to themselves only, being strictly personal and purely titular: until
then Roman senators had been styled simply "Patres," but from that time downwards they were
denominated "Patres CONSCRIPTI." No Roman could have been ignorant of this; and if the author
of the Annals did not know it, we ought not to be too severe upon him, when we shall see afterwards
that he was a Florentine of the fifteenth century: then on account of his having lived so many
centuries after the events of which he writes, it is quite excusable that he should fall into
a state of confusion with respect to this rather out of the way matter, though into such a
state of confusion no Roman could have fallen on account of his intimate acquaintance with
the outlines of his constitution, the customs of his country, and the distinctions of rank
in native society.

VII. The author of the Annals takes the grandson of the great dictator Camillus to have been
his son, when he observes: "after the illustrious recoverer of the city" (meaning Rome) "and
his son Camillus": "post illum reciperatorem urbis, filiumque ejus Camillum," (II. 52). In
that case what becomes of the exclamation of Spartian in his Life of the Emperor Severus, when
speaking of great Romans who had no illustrious children: "What of Camillus? For had he children
like himself?" "Quid Camillus? Nam sui similes liberos habuit?" Why, certainly, "he had children
like himself," if Marcus Furius had been his son, and not his grandson; for he was Consul and
Dictator like the renowned and noble-minded Lucius Furius. The mistake is easily accounted
for in a modern European writing Roman history from the famous Marcus Furius Camillus being
Consul only eleven years after his grandfather, which makes it look as if it was the son who
succeeded, and not the grandson. But it cannot be explained in a Roman, who must have taken
so much pride in the second Romulus of his country as to have known all about his family relations.
The error is only comparable to the extreme case of an Englishman being supposed to take such
very little interest in Queen Victoria as to mistake her for a daughter of William IV.

VIII. To be called upon to believe that these blunders could have been committed by Tacitus,
is to ask one to believe that he, who made no such mistakes in his History, ceased to write
like a Roman when composing the Annals. It is truly writing, not like an ancient Roman, but
a modern European, when in the first book of the Annals Germanicus is represented consulting
whether he will take a short and well known road, or one untried and difficult, though the
reason is, that by going the longer, he would go the unguarded way, and really do things quicker:
"consultatque, ex duobus itineribus breve et solitum sequatur, an impeditius et intentatum,
eoque hostibus incautum. Delecta longiore via, cetera adcelerantur" (I. 50). Were it not for
this passage, one would have thought that, in the days of Tiberius, Germany was almost as bare
of roads as the present interior of Arabia and Chinese Tartary; and that each tribe in that
enormous wilderness of wood and morass was approached, as the present people of Dahomey, Ashantee
and Timbucto, by a single path; and that it was only, after the lapse of centuries, when, in
the due course of things, Germany had assumed a more civilised character, that there were two,
three, or more roads; so that we can quite understand it being said of the Bavarian general,
John de Werth, in the seventeenth century, that he did this,--march out of the direct way,
which was watched, by another road, which was longer because it was unguarded: thus pouncing
on the enemy by night, and taking them so by surprise that they fled in alarm, he gained a
bloodless victory, without the drawing of a sword from its scabbard. Any advantage that a modern
general would gain in this way was not open to an ancient general, particularly when invading
the country of a people like the Germans, mere savages, who knew no more of such arts of warfare,
as guarding roads and sending out scouts, than Red Indians, Maoris and Hottentots of the present
time. Sir Garnet Wolseley, making his way to Coomassie, as a crow would fly, is just about
the manner in which we may be sure that Germanicus made his way into Germany--as straight as
he could go. But military history is not the forte of the author of the Annals. He knew it
and avoided it as much as he could,--very unlike Tacitus, who, practically acquainted with
military as well as civil affairs, writes with an obvious liking, of combats and civil wars,
and, according to military authorities competent to pass an opinion, shows everywhere familiarity
with battles, marches, management of armies and conduct of generals.

One cannot understand how Tacitus, whose youth was passed in a camp, should not have known
the whole minutiae about the Roman army; and that he should, with respect to its ensigns, exhibit
extraordinary ignorance. The fact stood thus:--the legions had "signa," or standards; the "socii,"
or allies, that is, the Latins, had "vexilla," or flags; so, perhaps, had the Romans when marching
under arms to a new settlement, or "colony"; but, certainly, soldiers raised in the provinces
had no ensigns at all, neither standards nor flags; yet in the first book of the Annals we
hear of some "maniples," or "infantry companies" of the legions that had been raised in Pannonia,
when the news reached them of the breaking out of a mutiny in the camp, tearing to pieces their
flags: "manipuli ... postquam turbatum in castris accepere, vexilla convellunt" (I. 20). The
mistake is similar to that which would be made if any one among ourselves were to give colours
to our volunteers or standards to our yeomanry.

Here it may be noticed that the figures of speech of Tacitus are, like those of most ancient
Romans, chiefly military. To be of the highest rank is, with him, "to lead the van,"--"primum
pilum ducere" (Hist. IV. 3), or to set about a thing, "to be girt" (as with a sword),--"accingi"
(Hist. IV. 79). The author of the Annals, though borrowing the latter phrase, goes anywhere
but to the field of battle for his figures; he takes them mostly from the ways of ordinary
civil life, selecting his metaphors, now from the trader's shop or the merchant's counting-house,
as "ratio constat" (An. I. 6), used when the debtor and creditor sides of an account balance
one another; now from seamen steering and tacking vessels, or coachmen driving horses, as "verbis
moderans" (An. VI. 2), which Nipperdey says ought to be rendered, "touching-up and reining-in
his words, and driving only at this."

IX. When Julius Caesar came to this country, he found the Britons, without an exception, thorough
barbarians, the best of them living in places that were fortified woods. The author of the
Annals, only a century after this wild state of things in the barbarism of the inhabitants
and the rudeness of their abodes, speaks of London, in the reign of Nero, in the year 60, as
if it were the chief residence of merchants and their principal mart of trade in the civilized
world. If there be one thing certain, it is that centuries after,--in the middle of the fourth,--the
people of London were only exporters of corn;--no certainty that they carried on any other
kind of commerce, except it might be doing a little business in dogs, and slaves whom they
captured from neighbouring barbarians,--their imports being polished bits of bone, toys and
horse-collars. Progressing, rapidly under the Romans, Saxons, Danes, Normans, and in the time
of the Plantagenets, they were in the fifteenth century a great and wealthy people, illustrious
for their commercial transactions, dealing in every species of commodity, visited by merchants
from every part of Europe, and envied by the most flourishing communities, such as the trading
oligarchies of Italy. Any one living at that time,--especially in Italy (where many circumstances
induce me to believe that the author or forger of the "Annals of Tacitus" lived),--and hearing
a great deal of the wealth, greatness and immense antiquity of London, might easily fall into
this mistake, grievous in its enormity as it is. But any one living about the time of Nero,
as Tacitus did, could never have described London in this flourishing state of commercial greatness
and prosperity. The chances are he never would have heard of London; for that would be supposing
in a Roman at the close of the first or the commencement of the second century of our aera
a geographical knowledge more minute than that of the President of the Royal Geographical Society,
unless at the haphazard mention of any particular village in the newly annexed Fiji Islands,
Sir Henry Rawlinson could enter into a correct account of its chief characteristic. But if
we are to go to the extreme length of supposing that Tacitus had heard of London, he would
know that it was a place of no repute, utterly insignificant, far inferior in importance to
two now almost forgotten places in Essex and Hertfordshire,--Maldon and St. Alban's,--called
then respectively Camelodunum and Verulamium,--the former being a "colonia," and the latter
a "municipium,"--London being a mere "praefectura." It is then the height of absurdity to believe
that if Tacitus wrote the Annals we should have heard in that work London spoken of as "remarkably
celebrated for the multiplicity of its merchants and its commodities": "copia negotiatorum
et commeatuum maxime celebre" (XIV. 33).

X. The author of the Annals pretends to know more about prominent individuals in Rome than
was known to their distinguished contemporaneous countrymen. He writes of Labeo Antistius,
as if that jurisconsult were an example to the age in which he lived of all the virtues and
all goodness, and possessed, to a masterly extent, accomplishments and acquirements; for thus
he speaks of him in conjunction with Capito Ateius: "Capito Ateius ... principem in civitate
locum studiis adsecutus--Labeonem Antistium, iisdem artibus praecellentem ... namque illa aetas
duo pacis decora simul tulit; sed Labeo incorrupta libertate ... celebratior" (An. III. 75).
Horace, who was a contemporary of Labeo's, says that he was a maniac, or, at any rate--"considered
very crazy in the company of the sane":--

    "Labeone insanior inter
    Sanos dicatur." (Sat. I. III. 82.)

Hitherto Horace by the side of "Tacitus" has been no better than a clay pitcher by a porcelain
vase; thus his disparaging, but, doubtless, quite correct estimate of Labeo has been till now
altogether disregarded, in consequence of this passage in the Annals, from its author being
credited with having exceeded what the ancient Romans had left us in the way of history.

So great is the repute of the Author of the Annals for supremacy in the historian's art that
Justus Lipsius places no faith whatever in Suetonius when that, possibly, most veracious historian
records in his Life of Tiberius (61) the number of the people who were executed for their attachment
to Sejanus as amounting to twenty; the universally applauded, and, generally considered, most
judicious Batavian critic of the sixteenth century, without a manuscript or edition for his
authority, alters this number for One Thousand, because the author of the Annals speaks of
a "countless" mass of slain of all ranks, ages, and both (he says "all") sexes, and further
describes corpses as lying about singly or piled up in heaps: "jacuit immensa strages, omnis
sexus, omnis aetas, illustres, ignobiles, dispersi aut aggerati" (VI. 19).

Hence, too, Dr. Nipperdey, in drawing up a table of the Augustan family, in order to guard
the reader against being perplexed by the relationships of that house, treats the same Suetonius
as of no account when he says,--and Suetonius twice says it (Cal. I., Ner. 5),--that Drusus,
the brother of Tiberius, married "the younger Antonia." "In default of other evidence on the
question of fact," says the learned professor, "we must follow the better author, Tacitus,"--the
better author being the writer of the Annals, who, on two occasions (I. 42; XII. 64), makes
the "elder Antonia" the wife of Drusus.

Examples of this description could be multiplied. But it is not necessary to pursue this line
of argument farther,--at least, at present. What is required just now is not so much proof
that the author of the Annals did not write like the Romans, but that he did not write like
Tacitus, notwithstanding the strenuous efforts he made to imitate him, and be mistaken for
him by contemporaries and posterity. To do this I must bring forward from the History and the
Annals an accumulation of coincidences, seeing that the fabricator, being a most acute person,
must have proceeded upon the same principle as a man who forges a cheque upon a banker, and
who, in the prosecution of his design, endeavours to imitate, as closely as he can, the handwriting
of his victim, and do everything carefully enough to escape immediate detection, whatever may
afterwards ensue.

I. Before proceeding to point out the imitations, and show where, in the efforts to write,
and make history after the likeness of Tacitus, the author of the Annals fails; and, from the
signal nature of his failures, his efforts are seen to be counterfeit, I may observe that a
constant endeavour on his part to escape detection renders his imposture difficult to perceive
and still more difficult to expose. A man of his penetration and power to enter far into subjects
was, of course, deep enough to contrive every species of artifice to conceal his fraud; and
as we have no record of his having been seen in the act of fabrication, or of his ever having
been even suspected of so doing, I must prove the forgery by a detail of facts and circumstances.
I can do this only by going through the Annals minutely,--examining the matter, manner, treatment,
knowledge, views, sentiments, language, style, --in fact, a variety of circumstances,--everything
that can be thought of;--for if it really be a forgery, it cannot be exactly like the History
of Tacitus in any one thing, whatever that one thing be;--then I shall leave the reader to
himself, to take into account the whole of the circumstances, and judge whether such a combination
could have existed in a genuine work by Tacitus, and is compatible with such a production.

We are to look, first, what the nature of the history purports to be;--whether there is nothing
peculiar as to its character.

It will be obvious to the least sagacious that the most paramount and absolutely necessary
thing to be accomplished was a vast and comprehensive execution that should correspond to the
vast and comprehensive execution of Tacitus. Here was something to be done seemingly insuperable;
for how can any one hope to imitate the execution of another, with such marvellous nicety that
no distinction can be discerned between the two on the minutest test of microscopic investigation?
more especially if the execution to be imitated be that of a man of real genius, consequently
unparalleled in its way, of a mighty nature, and, in addition to its mightiness, a thing of
the purest individuality. Now, the History of Tacitus is an execution of this description;
it is a work of real genius; therefore, it is a distinct essence,--a realization of all the
special aptitude possessed by the master-spirit that penned it. But though this cannot be done,
yet any one having genius,--and a powerful genius,--by following its bent directly, may expect
to exhibit in the execution of a work an ability that shall be considered equal to the ability
displayed in the execution of another, even though that other be a man of great genius; but
it can only be upon this very sage precaution,--that he exercises his ability, which must necessarily
be of a very different kind, in quite a different manner. The forger of the Annals had much
too acute a discernment not to know this;--he was also well aware that he had a very strong
forte. We know the department in which he excelled,--dealing with despotism, servility and
bloodshed. But then, if he was to do this, he would do that, which would be a very strong proof
that his work was a forgery; for if he was to do this, he could not take up the continuance
of history as Tacitus intended to go on with it namely, with Nerva and Trajan;--that he could
not do, because in dealing with those two rulers he would have to deal with men remarkable
for mildness, generosity, leniency and good- heartedness;--thus he would have to deal with
a subject which must be fatal to his attempt; for it would be opposed to the play of his peculiar
gifts, which to be brought out properly required that he should write only of Emperors noted
for cruel, unnatural, blood-thirsty tyranny. The plan of his undertaking, to be attended with
success, therefore compelled him, whether he liked it or not, to go back to Tiberius, Caligula,
Claudius and Nero.

II. This must have been greatly against his will as a forger, because this difficulty must
have risen up before his mental vision in colossal magnitude--that nobody, on careful consideration,
could admit that Tacitus would have written the narrative of the half-century from the death
of Augustus to the accession of Galba, after what he says at the commencement of his History,
that the subject next to engage his attention would be the events that happened in the reigns
of Nerva and Trajan. This, I repeat, is a point that brings forcibly before us the certainty
of the Annals being forged, unless any one can believe with Niebuhr that, if Tacitus completed
his History before the death of Trajan, and could not write of that Emperor as long as that
Emperor lived, but "feeling a void," and "desiring to produce another work," he resumed History
with the rule of Tiberius; but nobody can believe this, because it gets us into this enormous,
nay, inexplicable difficulty--Why the writer, who, in the History, had shown an epic construction,
with an epic opening and an epic story, should observe in the Annals quite another arrangement,
and distribute the narrative in a studiously annalistic form? when, too, the disjointed record
of the journalist was to be combined with the distinct arrangement of the historian who took
the continued transactions of a nation in their multiplicity of details as they occurred at
the same time in different places, and related them in clear and due unity in the subject.

III. Out of this variance in the two works arises another tremendous difficulty which we have
to look at:--The Annals and the History are intended, the one to be the complement to the other.
Then two works, which are necessary to each other, ought to be, when separated, incomplete:
if one man wrote them they would be incomplete when separated; but if two men wrote them, they
would be complete in themselves. Now, are the History and the Annals incomplete, when separated?
or complete in themselves? Everybody acknowledges that they are complete in themselves; each
contains everything requisite for the full understanding and enjoyment of each; each has its
peculiar force; each its distinct beauty; and for uniformity to exist in the two many passages
in both must be destroyed; and the most ingenious can give no just or adequate cause for the
destruction of the passages, even as he can give no just or adequate cause for their existence,
except that which I am advancing that it was because two men wrote the two works.

IV. This accounts at once for all the incongruities they owe their existence naturally enough
to the following simple causes:--the different kinds of information possessed as well as the
different views of things entertained by two different individuals; and, along with these,
an occasional failing of the memory; for a man, who forges such a very long work as the Annals,
must every now and then forget,--however tenacious his memory may be,--what the man, whom he
simulates, has said, here and there, in this or that work, upon some minor point in Roman history,
not associated with nor essential to the principal thing he has always to keep steadily in
mind,--his main matter. Thus we find no end of little trips in the Annals, many of which we
will point out in their proper places as we proceed with this investigation: at present it
is sufficient for the illustration of our remark to call the reader's attention to this fact:--In
the Annals Augustus is represented having as his successors in the first degree Tiberius and
Livia; in the second degree his grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and in the third degree
the leading nobles, including even some of those whom he hated, such, we may presume, as Labeo,
his detractor, Gallus Asinius, who was thirsting for empire, and Lucius Arruntius, who would
have made the attempt to unseat him had the opportunity presented itself:--"Tiberium et Liviam
haeredes habuit ... in spem secundam, nepotes pronepotesque: tertio gradu primores civitatis
scripserat, plerosque invisos sibi, sed jactantia gloriaque ad posteros" (An. I. 8). Such an
account of Augustus adopting these relations, and, after them, strangers and enemies, "out
of vain-glory and for future renown,"--that is, to be admired by posterity for an unexampled
display of humanity,--could not have been written by Tacitus, being different in every respect
from what he relates,--and what he says, by the way, is also said by Suetonius,--that Augustus,
looking for a successor in his own family, placed next to himself in dignity, so as to be prepared
to be his successor, his nephew, Marcellus, then his son-in-law, Agrippa, next his grandsons,
and lastly, his step-son, Tiberius Nero:--"divi Augusti, qui sororis filium, Marcellum, dein
generum, Agrippam, mox nepotes suos, postremo Tiberium Neronem, privignum, in proximo sibi
fastigio collocavit" (Hist. I. 15).

Such disagreements, due,--in all probability, more than to anything else,--to the occasional
failure of the memory,--are sufficient in themselves to prove that the Annals and the History
did not proceed from the same source. Accordingly, the man who forged the Annals, having apparently,
this overwhelming and troublesome difficulty ever uppermost in his mind, seems to have taken
measures for guarding against it as well as he could, and with as much care as he could. This
taking precautions against the failure of memory must have been one of the main reasons, why
he elected writing of Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius and Nero, when, as Tacitus, he ought to
have written of Nerva and Trajan. He was thus enabled to relate a series of events prior to,
and entirely different from the series of events related by Tacitus; there was thereby no possibility
of his narrative clashing with that of his archetype; the most trying difficulties were in
this way got over with sufficient ease; the only danger was with regard to a few individuals
who lived during the two periods, and a few facts, that trailed their circumstances from one
period into the other; but his main history would have nothing in common with the main history
of Tacitus.

V. To borrow a phrase of Gualterius--he ran the risk of "falling into Scylla in trying to avoid
Charybdis":

 "Incidit in Scyllam, qui vult vitare Charybdin."

How could he convince the world that Tacitus would act with such twofold inconsistency as to
write of Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius and Nero, when he had said that he would not do so, on
account of the number of writers who had recorded the occurrences of their reigns, and that
if he resumed the duties of an historian it would be with the reigns of Nerva and Trajan. The
world,--and nobody knew it better than the author of the Annals,--is easily convinced; and
there is no inconsistency, however monstrous, that it considers unaccountable. He, therefore,
set about the task of convincing the world that Tacitus did this. Acting up to his own maxim,
that "the way to get out of disgraceful acts that are evident is by audaciousness": "flagitiis
manifestis subsidium ab audacia petendum" (An. XI. 26), he resorted to audacity in a trick,
which has been hitherto eminently successful,--making the world believe from a single remark
which he introduced into his narrative as the double of Tacitus, that that noble Roman was
really guilty of this twofold inconsistency, so that changeableness, unsteadiness of purpose
and self-contradiction should seem to be his leading characteristics. Without ever intending
to write the history of Augustus,--or he never would have begun the Annals with an introduction
in which he epitomizes principal events in the Roman State from its very foundation, otherwise
what had he left to himself in a subsequent historical composition of a prior date for an appropriate
exordium,--he says in his third book that he would make the memorable events in the reign of
Augustus the subject of a new history, should his health and life continue:--"cetera illius
aetatis memorabo, si plures ad curas vitam produxero" (An. III. 24)--evidently only because
Tacitus had said at the commencement of his History, that he had reserved as the employment
of his old age, should his life be long enough, the reigns of Nerva and Trajan:--"quod si vita
suppeditet, principatum Divi Nervae et imperium Trajani ... senectuti seposui" (Hist. I. 1).
There was then one and the same man saying in one place:--"I am going to write the History
of Augustus when I am an old man;"--(and this being said in the Annals, the author of that
book must have wanted the world to presume that the writer would have chosen the form of biography
for it):--and in another place: "I am going to write the history of Nerva and Trajan when I
am an old man"; (and this being said in the History, the author of the Annals must have supposed
that the world might presume that the writer would have chosen the form of history for this
continued production).

The author of the Annals having done this, opened out before himself the very widest field
for indulging in all sorts of contradictions; for, after this, who would not be, and who is
not, prepared for any contradictions? The contradictions come; and they are strange and numerous.

VI. There is a systematic subordination of history to biography throughout the Annals, in which
imperial events are sacrificed to the prominence and effect of individual delineations: in
the History there is a general, comprehensive review of the Empire at the time of Nero's death;
Rome is the centre, and the subject matter the condition of a people affected by the imperial
system of government. The History conveys political instruction; the Annals supplies materials
for studying the human mind and the motives of human conduct: in imparting a knowledge of events
respecting the Roman nation, the writer of the History, who is gifted with graphic power, places
images before us, whereas the writer of the Annals, aware that in picturesqueness he was inferior
to Tacitus, gives us impressions, while he investigates social phenomena and elucidates the
principles of human nature. One work is historic, the other philosophic. One man generalizes,
the other particularizes. We are presented with one set of interests in the History, with another
set in the Annals. In the History we see the struggles of an empire and the convulsions of
the world; in the Annals we are shut out from such a prospect, to have our view limited to
the deeds of one or two emperors, and a few renowned individuals.

VII. Such differences, so striking and so essential, prove the Annals to be a forged book;
for all these differences in the two works can only be ascribed to the entirely different turns
of mind peculiar to two writers. Tacitus wrote as he did, from having a profounder knowledge
of the springs of action in the political world than the author of the Annals. The author of
the Annals, surpassing Tacitus with respect to the moral world, wrote as he did, from knowing
better the motives that influence men's minds, and the passions that sway their hearts. The
result of two such very different men composing two such very different works, is, that the
contrast is almost as great when we turn from the History to the Annals, as when we turn from
a general history of England by a Hume or a Lingard where we notice the origin of Englishmen's
liberties and privileges, the chivalrous scenes of the past and the proud glories of the present,
to the local record of some county, as Kent or Lancashire, by a Hasted or a Baines, embodying
information of boroughs and parishes, town councils and corporations, where such things become
of substantial importance as the clauses of charters, the collection of market dues, donations
of maces and drinking cups to mayors, and gold or silver cradles to their ladies on the birth
of babies during the year of office.

If the Annals is really to be considered a forgery, this, instead of being a matter of surprise,
ought to be just the thing to be expected; because a clever fabricator, foreseeing that he
would be suspected, and eager to foil detection, would know that the curious inquirer into
a research of the present description would thus become baffled at every turn from inability,
if not to discover it himself, at least, to explain to the satisfaction and conviction of others,
the incompatibility of the workings of one spirit in one book with the workings of the other
spirit in the other book, when the two compositions were so differently contrived. But if the
Annals is to be considered as genuine, then nobody can explain why the same individual should
illustrate Roman history in this singular fashion,--both works being designed, as universally
admitted, the one to be a complement to the other. What should be the inducement of the author
of the Annals if he did not wish the world to deny that it was his handiwork to write his book
so very differently from the History of Tacitus? For what was there in the times of Rome under
Galba, Otho, Vitellius and Vespasian so very different from what the Roman Empire was under
their immediate predecessors, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius and Nero, that the part which has
to do with events in the days of the first-named four emperors should treat of imperial transactions
and be deficient in many of the memorials which claim notice in the part dealing with Tiberius,
Caligula, Claudius and Nero; and, that the part which has to do with events in the times of
the last-named four emperors should all but avoid what is amply recorded in the part, dealing
with Galba, Otho, Vitellius and Vespasian, imperial occurrences finding but an occasional and
almost accidental notice in the Annals, where the mind is encumbered with the minutiae of circumstantial
details of individual deeds.

VIII. The author of the Annals, who (as I shall convincingly show hereafter) lived in the XVth
century, seems, on account of that, to have had a still stronger reason than those just given
for selecting as his subject the half century after the death of Augustus: its characters and
events corresponded closely to the characters of the princes who ruled, and the nature of the
movements that were going on all over Europe in his time; for in forging history, that was
to pass as written by Tacitus, it was incumbent that he should have the same advantage as the
Roman,--be on the same level with him in the occupation of ground. Now, the ground occupied
by Tacitus was the time of himself, which enabled him to give a complete and copious reflex
of a period through which he had lived with thoughtful attention. Thus his colours are bright.
Unless antiquity supplied the author of the Annals only the framework of his picture, and the
events of the time when he lived gave the scenes for the painting, his colours would fail,
and his outlines become unsteady. In other words, there could not be the scrupulous minuteness
and the perfect freedom which make history live and breathe, unless, like Tacitus, he registered
facts in which he took the deepest interest, from feeling their influence directly and powerfully
exerted over himself, and the living and loved around him. Thus his hand, by being guided as
the hand of Tacitus, would throw life into his work. And, truly, there is as much life in the
Annals as in the History; but, instead of the air of the first century breathing around it,
it is the air of the fifteenth.

This can be tested by many a character; one will suffice, that of Caius Piso in the fifteenth
book (48). Pliny and Juvenal tell us that Piso was consul suffectus under Claudius: the Tabulae
Arvales add that he was a member of the College of Twelve who offered sacrifice when there
was increase in the produce of the soil. Writers and records of antiquity say no more of Caius
Piso, not even mentioning the name of his father. On such a little known man a forger of Roman
history could safely expatiate; the author of the Annals does so in a portraiture that bears
the stamp of the fifteenth century: this is particularly observable when Piso is spoken of
as "of brilliant repute among the populace for virtues," or, rather, "qualities that wore the
form of virtues,"--"species virtutibus similes";--that he was "far from being morosely moral,
or restrained by moderation in pleasures; mild in temper and soft in manners; given to pompous
show and occasionally steeping himself in luxurious excesses,"--"procul gravitas morum, aut
voluptatum parsimonia: lenitati ac magnificentiae et aliquando luxui indulgebat." This does
not appear to be at all applicable to the character of any conspicuous personage belonging
to the Roman Empire in the first century, when Romans were warriors still, preserving, amid
some effeminacy, much of the hardy vigour of their Republican predecessors, ever and anon throwing
aside the toga for the sagum, and rushing from the Forum to the field, to battle with ferocious
and demi-nude savages, whom ever subduing they carried home captives chained to their triumphal
chariots; but it does seem to be uncommonly applicable to a time when many a priest, whose
writings manifest a lax habit of thinking and betray a levity, indeed, licentiousness, ill
according with a religious turn of mind, rose to the position of a great dignitary of the Church
and a powerful arbiter of the destinies of his kind. As that was an age when Alexander VI.
was a Pope, and Lucretia Borgia the daughter of a Pontiff and consort of a reigning Duke of
Italy, we can readily credit the author of the Annals, and laud him for admirable, life-like
portraiture, when he says that a character and conduct, such as Piso's, "met with the approbation
of a large number of people, who, indulging in vice as delightful, did not want at the head
of affairs a strict practiser of the moral duties and an austere abstainer from vice:"--"pluribus
probabatur, qui in tanta vitiorum dulcedine summum imperium non restrictum nec perseverum volunt."

The character is too vague in its outlines to be any particular individual's; but as all its
points fit many an Italian priest who became a Cardinal or a Bishop and a chief minister to
a prince, in the time of the Renaissance, as well as in the period immediately before it, and
that immediately after it,--it shows how men reflect the age they live in,--how the principal
biographies in any certain time convey a pretty accurate idea of the tone of mind then prevailing;
further, and above all, it shows to what a great degree the books of the Annals reflect the
chief features of the period when they were written, and how deeply their author enters into
the spirit of his age.

As with characters so with events. Heaps of passages in the Annals read like incidents in the
fifteenth century. It is more like a picture in an Italian court at that period than in a Roman
Emperor's in the first century, when the arrest is made of Cneius Novius for being found treacherously
armed with a dagger while mixing with the throng of courtiers bowing to the prince; and then
when he is stretched on the rack, no confession being wrung from him as to accomplices; and
the doubt that prevailed whether he really had fellow-conspirators. "Cneius Novius, eques Romanus,
ferro accinctus reperitur in coetu salutantium principem. Nam, postquam tormentis dilaniabatur,
de se non infitiatus conscios non edidit, incertum an occultans." (An. XI. 22.)

IX. In this way do I fancy I perceive the author of the Annals chose his subject and worked
his materials, so as to do most justice to his talents, and more easily reach the height attained
by Tacitus. When he had apparently thus sketched the plan of his edifice, and set about struggling
with the difficulties of the elaboration, he encountered these with such eminent success that
the reality of his literary labour is one of the most surprising facts in the history of the
human mind. He seems never to have once deviated from his design nor to have ever been perplexed
by embarrassments in the course of his undertaking, notwithstanding the voluminousness of its
nature. In such a procedure, where the time he chose to descant upon fits in with all he wanted
to accomplish, we see the first indication of the vast judgment he possessed, as well as the
correct notion he had formed of the extent of his superior powers. In detecting in the author
of the Annals so much judgment and such an exact estimate of his great mental faculties, we
see the difficulty to be coped with in distinguishing between him and Tacitus, and thus in
distinguishing between the spurious and the genuine: but this distinguishing can be accomplished
by a minute, and only a most minute examination of the two works.

I. Statesmen learn the things which are of use to them in government by reading the History,
because Tacitus recounts the actions of the world under the imperial rule of Rome. All men
can profit in the choice of morals from reading the Annals, on account of its writer relating
principally the actions of sovereign princes and illustrious persons in their private capacity.

This diversity of treatment results from the difference in the qualities of the writers. Tacitus
possessed a consummate knowledge of the true policy of States, and the use and extent of government.
Accordingly, he reveals measures necessary for the successful carrying on of war, or the proper
and equitable administration of affairs in peace, while he places before us a graphic and presumably
true picture of the mode in which the Romans ruled their Empire in the first century of the
Christian aera. The author of the Annals was acquainted with an entirely different form and
order of statesmanship and politics. Hence he immerses us in crooked turnings of false policy
and dark intrigues of bad ambition, forcibly reminding us of what made the greatest portion
of the European art of government in the fifteenth century towards the close of the mediaeval
and the commencement of the modern periods. He favours us with a paucity of maxims relating
to government in general, or the different branches and offices which make up the body politic;
but enters, with tedious fulness, into the rise, operation, consequences and proper restraint
of the genuine passions and natural propensities of mankind in individuals, public and private.

We search in vain in the History for any trace of the melancholy that we find in the Annals;
and in vain do we look in the Annals for any pictures of virtue and lessons of wisdom which
in the History are taught us by bright examples and illustrious actions. Had the same hand
that wrote the Annals written the History, we should have had in the latter work a very different
treatment. The record would have been dark and dismal, even to repulsion, the opportunities
being ample for an historian of gloomy disposition to indulge his humour, when the character
of the History is thus described with truth in the Preface to Sir Henry Saville's translation
of it:--"In these four books we see all the miseries of a torn and declining state; the empire
usurped; the princes murdered; the people wandering; the soldiers tumultuous; nothing unlawful
to him that hath power, and nothing so unsafe as to be securely innocent." Then, after stating
what we learn from the examples of Galba, Otho, Vitellius and Vespasian, the writer adds: "In
them all, and in the state of Rome under them, we see the calamities that follow civil war,
where laws lie asleep, and all things are judged by the sword." In going over such a dreary
period of human history, Tacitus is as composed and cheerful as if he was dwelling on the gayest
and brightest of themes.

The cause of this is to be found in the fact that there was nothing to overshadow the soul
of Tacitus with gloom. However painful and dire may have been the constraint to other Romans
during the fifteen years' rule of Domitian, he had no ground of complaint: far from that; for
he says that he was advanced by that Emperor further in dignity than by Vespasian and Titus.
In the reign of Trajan he must have been supremely happy; for he speaks of it himself as "a
time of rare felicity,"--"rara temporum felicitate,"--when men might "think what they pleased
and express what they thought." His domestic life must have been blest by the perfect devotion
and tender attachment of a wife, who, then in her prime, had surely verified the brilliant
hopes of the promising bride. (Agr. 9.) In the maturity of his days he lived again in his children;
for that he had children we know from the Emperor Tacitus, a century and a half after, boasting
of being his descendant, a pride that was shared in the fifth century by Polemius, a Prefect
of Gaul, as we learn from a remark of the Prefect's friend, Sidonius Apollinaris. He enjoyed
the most brilliant of literary reputations, as the anecdote sufficiently reveals of a stranger,
who, addressing him at a public spectacle, and being informed that he must know him well from
his writings, remarked: "Then you must be either Tacitus or Pliny." He was happy in the friendship
of Pliny the Younger, and men as good, eminent and distinguished as that elegant disciple of
Cicero's.

There was then nothing, in the fortunes of Tacitus to make him trenchant, biting and cynical;
but, on the contrary, most gentle, as he was, and most placid and benign. Such being his character,
a kind interpretation and a candid sense of actions and individuals meet us on every page of
his History. Still in enumerating the virtues of eminent persons he does not omit their vices
or failings: his way of doing this is peculiar. He tells us Sabinus served the State for five
and thirty years with great distinction at home and abroad, and was of unquestionable integrity,
but adds jestingly "he talked too much."--"Quinque et triginta stipendia in republica fecerat,
domi militiaeque clarus; innocentiam justitiamque ejus non argueret: sermonis nimium erat."
(Hist. III. 75.) Otho and Vitellius quarrel and charge each other with debaucheries and the
grossest crimes; the historian then, with dry humour, remarks, "neither was wrong":--"Mox,
quasi rixantes stupra et flagitia invicem objectavere: neuter falso." (Hist. I. 74.) This witty
and ridiculing vein does not prevent him from being always kindly. The benignity of his nature
is seen in all his portraitures (which look, by the way, like the portraitures of real men);
it is observable in his character of Licinius Mucianus (I. 10), Cornelius Fuscus (II. 86),
Helvidius Priscus (IV. 5), and others;--lovely portraits where defects or peccadilloes are
given along with real and positive virtues, and in an antithetical manner. His antithetical
manner is preserved in the Annals; but, instead of blandness, we come across a propensity to
form unfavourable opinions of character and conduct, as when the Athenians are designated "that
scum of nations":--"colluviem illam nationum" (II. 55); and Octavia, "the sprig of a gipsy
fiddler" [Endnote 074]:--"tibicinis Aegyptii subolem." (XIV. 61) There is wit and ridicule
in both works, but it is not the wit and ridicule of the same individual; it is sprightly and
amusing in the History; it is ungracious and actually cruel in the Annals.

This difference in the writing of Tacitus and the author of the Annals may be accounted for
in many ways,--perhaps in none better than this:--When Tacitus lived no one despaired of public
cares being attended to, or the plans of the wise being employed in advancing the national
welfare; but when the author of the Annals lived, everybody despaired; private profligacy was
as rampant as public misery, and, amid the universal degeneracy, scheming politicians disregarded
the good and greatness of their country to be intriguers at court for the improvement of their
position.

Those were the times when Louis XI. supplied the places of the ministers and marshals, the
generals and admirals of France, the Dunois, the La Tremoilles, the Brezes and the Chabannes
with mere creatures--new and obscure men who aided him in his artful schemes and plans of government:
he made his barber an ambassador, his tailor a herald at arms, and his phlebotomist a chancellor:
he imposed enormous taxes on the people, and when the people revolted, he ordered some of the
ringleaders to be torn to pieces alive by horses, and the others to be beheaded, as occurred
at Rheims, Angers, Alencon and Aurillac. Francis of Carrara, the Lord of Padua, cruelly murdered
the Venetian General, Galeaz of Mantua, when the Doge and Council of Venice refused to ratify
the terms of a capitulation. Suspicion attached to the peace in which Ivan Basilowitch lived
and ruled in his palace at Moscow, surrounded completely by a wooden wall. Enclosed, too, by
a very large tract of land, and in a most magnificent mansion which he built for himself and
his companions at Ripaglia, a place pleasantly situated on the Lake of Geneva, Amedeus, the
last Count and first Duke of Savoy, so abandoned himself in his unobserved private and solitary
life, to all kinds of debaucheries, that Desmarets says in his "Tableau des Papes" (p. 167)
that from that originated the phrase "to feast and make merry,"--"faire repaille"; yet this
very Amedeus afterwards acted the part of the only true Pope at Tonon during the greater portion
of the two years, 1440 and 1441, having been elected to the Pontificate by the Fathers of Basle
during the Papacy of Eugenius IV. When the throne of Don Carlos, the Infant of Navarre, was
usurped, on the death of his mother, Blanche of Navarre, by her husband, John I. of Aragon,
a disgraceful quarrel and a prolonged war ensued between father and son, when the son, being
repeatedly defeated in battle, was finally captured and cast into prison by the father, and
poisoned by his mother-in-law; although he was deserving of a better fate, being an enlightened
prince who wrote a History of the Kings of Navarre, which is still preserved in the archives
of Pampeluna. A blind and feeble old monarch, Muley Albohacan, King of Granada, ordered the
massacre of a number of children by his first marriage; Ziska destroyed 550 churches and monasteries
in Germany alone; and, for attempting reforms in religion, Huss and Jerome of Prague were cruelly
burnt alive at the stake. These and similar horrors of those distressful times, which find
fit counterparts in revolting incidents in the Annals, could not but deeply affect the soul
of a man ardently loving liberty and devoted to humanity as, unquestionably, was the forger
of that work: hence throughout his book the sting which misfortune gives, and the moodiness
which melancholy begets.

A spirit of liberty runs through his work; but the spirit is not the same as that which pervades
the History of Tacitus any more than that his merits are like the Roman's in precision of delineating
actions and characters. The good temper of Tacitus causes him to differ from other writers
in the estimation of character. He gives a better account of Galba and Vitellius than Suetonius;
of Vitellius and Nero than the abbreviator of Cassius Dio, Xiphilinus, of Otho than Juvenal;
and of Vinius than Plutarch. Galba, who, in Suetonius, puts to death, with their wives and
children, the Governors in Spain and Gaul who did not side with his party during the life of
Nero, is, with Tacitus, a prince remarkable for integrity and justice, and such faults as he
has are not, strictly speaking, his own, but those of worthless friends who abuse his confidence,
for we are told that it is the pernicious counsels of Titus Vinius and Cornelius Laco, the
former depraved and profligate, the other slothful and incapable, which first lose him the
popular favour and ultimately prove his ruin: "Invalidum senem Titus Vinnius et Cornelius Laeo,
alter deterrimus mortalium, alter ignavissimus, odio flagitorum oneratum, contemptu inertiae
destruebant." (Hist. I. 6 in.) Vitellius, who, according to Suetonius, puts one of his sons
to death, and poisons his mother, or starves her to death, is, in Tacitus, a tender father
doing all for his offspring that fortune permits him to do in his excess of adversity (Hist.
II. 59), and a respectful, sensitive son seeking to abdicate his empire in order to rescue
his parent from impending evils. (Hist. III. 67.) Juvenal shows us Otho carrying into the tumult
of the battle-field the effeminacy that disgraces him in time of peace; Tacitus represents
Otho as an active warrior (Hist. II. 11); and convinces us that there was more of good than
evil in that emperor. Xiphilinus paints the wife of Vitellius as wickedly dissolute; Tacitus
as a respectable woman of whom the State had no complaint to make in her misfortune. He can
find virtues even in Vinius (Hist. I. 13), whom the Roman people execrated and whom Plutarch
castigates in terms of unmeasured reprehension.

The Author of the Annals brings before our vision quite opposite reflections from the mirror
of life: his pictures are quite horrid of revolting crimes unrelieved by virtuous actions in
Tiberius, Claudius, Nero, Sejanus, Agrippina, Messalina, Albucilla, and other men and women.
His character of Tiberius is the wonderfully drawn portrait of the most absolute and artful
tyrant that was ever created by the fancy of man; and we may be as certain that such a character
never existed as we may be assured that that the wise maxims and fine things were ever uttered
which he tells us passed the lips in private of Emperors and Ministers of State. Though not
a single virtue relieves the vices of Tiberius in the Annals, Suetonius speaks of him as showing
clemency when a public officer; Cassius Dio describes him as so humane that he condemned nobody
for his estate, nor confiscated any man's goods, nor exacted money by force; and Velleius Paterculus
makes him all but a pattern of the virtues,--if Velleius Paterculus is an authority,--it being
just possible that his "Historiae Romanae ad Marcum Vinicium Consulem" may some of these days
be as clearly proved to be as glaring a modern forgery, as I am now attempting to prove the
Annals of Tacitus to be: certain it is that what we have of Velleius Paterculus is supplied
by only one MS., which was found under very suspicious circumstances in very suspicious times.

II. The general train of the narrative may be as nervous in the Annals as in the History; but
the latter is proof against all objections to imperfection and hurry of narrative: every now
and then errors of this description mar the workmanship of the Annals, showing at once that
it was not composed by Tacitus. From what he did in the History, he never would have abruptly
dropped the proceedings in the Senate with regard to Tiberius and the honours paid to his family:
there would have been a measure of time and place in the campaigns of Germanicus: he would
have told us what urged Piso to his acts of apparent madness; and whether he was guilty or
innocent of poisoning Germanicus: we should have known whether the adopted son of Tiberius
came to a violent end; whether Agrippina perished on account of food withheld from her in her
dungeon; and how Julia, the granddaughter of Augustus died. This habit of occasionally neglecting
to impart complete information, which is not at all in the manner of Tacitus, cannot be due
to the difference of arrangement in the two works; which, in itself, is a very suspicious difference;
for the plan in the Annals is to give the transactions of every year in chronological order,
whereas that in the History is not to keep each year distinct in itself, but allow occurrences
to find their proper place according to their nature, before the time when they happen. [Endnote
081]

In addition to this very suspicious difference, there is another producing so much doubt that
alone it seems to stamp with truth the theory of the Annals being a forgery.

Tacitus passes over in silence men renowned for learning who took no part in the historical
events related by him. The author of the Annals, at the end of one historic year, before passing
on to record the events of that which follows, mentions their deaths, as of the two famous
juris-consults, Capito Ateius and Labeo Antistius. (III. 74.) In this style of writing we detect
two men differing from each other as widely as De Thou differs from Guicciardini: De Thou,
confining himself to his own times, descends into minutiae, so as to record the deaths of the
great men of his day; Guicciardini, with his eye fixed on his country, passes over memorials
of individuals to dwell on the various causes which brought about the great changes in the
civil and ecclesiastical policy of his stirring period.

Another thing extremely suspicious is that nowhere in his History, nor even in his biographical
work, Agricola, does Tacitus introduce a whole letter. All that he does is to give the substance,
and not the contents, as the letter from Tiberius to Germanicus in Germany. (Hist. V. 75.)
Elsewhere he refers merely to the contents of letters, as in the second book of the History
(64). Speeches are found in his works, for this reason:--Speeches form no small part of what
is transacted in the senate, at the army and before the emperor; they issue to the public,
they pass through the mouths of men, and they form much weighty matter. Tacitus then seems
to have thought that if he inserted speeches, he would be maintaining the majesty of history
by attending to great matters, but that if he inserted letters, as they refer generally to
private affairs, he would be faulty as an historian, by ceasing to be grave and becoming trifling.
There is no accounting, then, for the letter that is found in the Annals (III. 53), if we are
to assume that that work was the composition of Tacitus, except we are ready to admit that
he was capable of descending from the accustomed gravity of his lofty historical manner to
be a rival for supremacy in the small style of such indifferent memoirists, as Vulcatius Gallicanus,
who has almost as many letters as there are pages in his very short life of the Emperor Avidius
Cassius. [Endnote 083]

Nobody can satisfactorily explain why, or how it was possible that, Tacitus should have contradicted
in the Annals what he says in the History of the Legions of Rome and the Praetorian and Urban
Cohorts. He tells us in his History that his countrymen had legions in Britain, Gaul, and Italy;
in the Annals we are told that the Romans had no troops in those countries. We gather from
the Annals, that there were eight legions in Germany, three in Spain, and two each in Moesia,
Africa, and Pannonia; from the History we find that there were seven legions in Germany, three
in Moesia, two in Spain, and one each in Africa and Pannonia. We are told in the History that
the Praetorian Cohorts were nine, in the Annals ten. So we are told in the History that the
Urban Cohorts were four (quatuor urbanae cohortes scribebantur) (Hist. II. 93), and in the
Annals three (insideret urbem proprius miles, tres urbanae). (An. IV. 5.) It matters not what
are the right statements in these several instances; all that concerns us in our inquiry is
that, here beyond all question are two different men, possessing quite a different knowledge,
informing us about the same things; and the disagreements would be mighty puzzling on any other
theory than that which we are advancing,--that two different men wrote the History and the Annals.

So, again, with respect to the twenty-one, and afterwards twenty-five priests of Apollo, the
"Sodales Augustales," otherwise styled "Sacerdotes Titii," the latter name being given to them,
according to Varro, after birds similarly called, whose motions it was their duty to watch
in certain auguries (though what the ancients called the "titius," by the way, is about as
little known as what Pliny calls the "spinthurnyx,"--Servius and Isidorus thinking they might
have been "doves," from such fowls being styled by the common people "tetas" and "tetos").
Livy makes no mention of these priests; neither does Dionysius of Halicarnassus, though Dionysius
was very fond of entering into details of Roman antiquities. Tacitus gives one origin to this
priesthood, the author of the Annals another; Tacitus, describing the gladiatorial shows by
which the birthday of Vitellius was celebrated in the year 15, says, that the Emperor Tiberius
consecrated those priests to the Julian House, in imitation of their first institutor, Romulus,
who consecrated them to King Tatius: (facem Augustales subdidere: quod sacerdotium, ut Romulus
Tatio regi, ita Caesar Tiberius Juliae genti, sacravit.) (Hist. II. 95.) The author of the
Annals, as if this passage had entirely slipped his attention, or dropped from his memory,
or forgetting that he was engaged in the forgery of a work by Tacitus, corrects that view by
making quite a different statement, that it was King Tatius, and not Romulus, who first instituted,
and apparently consecrated that order of priesthood to himself, his exact words being: "that
same year saw established a new religious ceremony, by the priesthood being added of the 'Augustales
Sodales,' as of yore Titus Tatius, to retain the holy rites of the Sabines, had instituted
the 'Sodales Titii'":--Idem annus novas caermonias accepit, addito sodalium Augustalium sacerdotio,
ut quodam Titus Tatius retinendis Sabinorum sacris sodales Titios instituerat. (An. I. 54.)
As many writings bearing upon the remote time of Romulus and the Sabine kings may be lost,
and the author of the Annals may have had, in the fifteenth century, authorities not extant
now, to warrant him in writing history so very differently from Tacitus; and as that Roman
in such matters must have taken what he said on trust from others, we cannot here decide who
was right and who wrong; but what is most important in this investigation is that the disagreement
is quite sufficient to convince us that Tacitus did not write the Annals.

We shall hereafter more particularly distinguish the two works by other differences in their
matter and form, the manner of their authors, and the substance of the things treated of: for
the present we may proceed to distinguish them by some differences in their style and language.

III. In these respects nothing is easier than to detect two writers, no matter how careful
they may be in endeavouring to imitate the style and language of each other: there will always
be some shade,--and indeed, a very strong shade,--whereby to distinguish their manner of thinking
and their choice and arrangement of words; there will be more or less purity, simplicity, grace
and propriety in their choice of language; more or less beauty, precision, cadence and harmony
in their collocation of words: their cogitative faculty will vary in measure of thought--in
force or tenuity; nor will they resemble in their train of ideas,--be that regular, methodical
and uniform, or unsteady, scattered and disorderly. There must ever be these important differences;
they spring out of individual idiosyncrasy; their exercise is involuntary, being dependent
upon the native taste and turn of mind of the writer; from such influence he can no more escape,
than he can avoid in his physical qualities a peculiar gait or tone of voice, look, laugh,
or mode of bearing. If any one question this, let him take up any of the dramas written conjointly
by members of the School of Shakespeare in the reign of James the First. They all tried to
shape themselves in the same mould; they served apprentices to one another in constructing
and composing the drama; Cartwright strove to write like his instructor, Ben Jonson; Massinger
like his master, Shakespeare; Shakespeare, too, like Marston and Robert Green (for Marston
taught him how to write tragedy, and Green taught him how to write comedy): they believed that
they eminently succeeded in catching each other's manner, and to such a nicety, that they could
write together, without the handiwork of one being distinguishable from the handiwork of the
other. In this spirit Shakespeare wrote with Fletcher; Dekker with William Rowley; Ford, too,
with Dekker; numerous others similarly composed in companionship, Middleton, Marston, Day and
Heywood; but any one acquainted with their separate productions, consequently, with their style
and language can hardly fail to point out what this one wrote, and what was written by the
other. Test this by Shakespeare, who, it would be supposed, is the most difficult to detect
because it is generally stated and believed that he wrote in a variety of styles; it is only
a seeming variety; his mode of versification certainly differs--he changed his measures with
his subjects; still the same fancy is always at work, impressing images with strength on the
mind; there is no change in the weightiness of the style, the quaintness of the language, the
justness of the representations, the depth of the reflections, whether he be writing the two
worst plays in which he took part (for portions only seem to have been supplied by him), Pericles
and Titus Andronicus, or his two best, conceived so massively and executed in such a masterly
manner, Macbeth and Othello. In the Two Noble Kinsmen, which he wrote with Fletcher, any body
familiar with his acknowledged dramas, can trace him as easily as a traveller follows with
his finger the course of the Rhone while that river is traversing the Lake of Geneva; for one
can tell with as much certainty, as if assured of it, that he wrote the whole opening of that
tragedy, or First Act, while his light, airy and more sprightly collaborator wrote all the
closing part, or last Act.

Now, the author of the Annals seems to have displayed remarkable diligence in a careful study
of the style and language of Tacitus with the view of reproducing them in the multiplicity
and variety of expressions that would necessarily occur in the course of the very long work
he meditated forging. To judge from his handiwork, he was specially struck by certain peculiarities:--such
as dignified and powerful expression, with extraordinary conciseness joined to loftiness of
diction;--hence, his brevity, being dissembled, and altogether foreign to his own natural diction,
which was most copious, has a hardness and obscurity, of which the brevity of Tacitus is totally
void. He seems to have furthermore observed how the language of Tacitus has a poetical complexion,
is figurative, nor altogether free from oratorical tinsel with mixture of foreign, especially
Greek construction, and the most peculiar, new and unusual turns of expression, alliterations
and similar endings of words. Yet notwithstanding all this care and diligence he was utterly
incapable of approaching in language and style so close to the great original he pretended
to be as to be confounded with him; he was, indeed, not a bit more successful in approaching
his prototype, than that emulous imitator of Tacitus, Ammianus Marcellinus.

Much might be taken from the Excursus of Roth and the Prolegomena of Doederlein and Boetticher
greatly to strengthen this part of my argument; but, their treatises being well known, I abstain,
merely observing that, from their remarks, it will be seen that only in the Annals are verbs
constructed in a very uncommon and frequently archaic manner, as the ancient perfect, conpesivere
(IV. 32), of which there is no example in Tacitus, as there is in Catullus:

    O Latonia, maximi
    Magna progenies Jovis,
    Quam mater prope Deliam
   Deposivit olivam. XXXIV. 5-8.

It will be also seen in the above-mentioned most able production of Doederlein that the infinitive
and the particles ut, ne and quod are joined with many verbs; that there is an interchange
of ad and ut (An. II. 62); a joining of the present and the perfect, and a joining of the infinitive
with those two tenses. In the midst of this damaging criticism Doederlein quotes Walther, who
has also commented upon the Annals, but in terms of enthusiastic commendation, for he praises
such writing as first-rate workmanship--"adjustments by design," says the ingenious German;
not, of course, the unconscious errors, that a modern European might make in a case of forgery:
the discovery reminds me of Mr. Ruskin's unqualified eulogies of everything done by the brush
of Turner, which caused the great artist to observe: --"This gentleman has found out to be
beauties what I have always considered to be blemishes."

Professor Hill, also, in his "Essay upon the Principles of Historical Composition" has noticed
in the Annals some modes of construction not to be met with in any Roman writer, such as a
wrong case after a verb,--a genitive after apiscor which governs an accusative: "dum dominationis
apisceretur" (VI. 45); and an accusative after praesideo which governs a dative: "proximum
que Galliae litus rostratae naves praesidebant" (IV. 5).

IV. Here let me pause for a moment to glance at a prodigious thing that has been done to Tacitus:
it really has no parallel in literature: a number of foreigners have impugned his knowledge
of his native tongue. The learned German, Rheinach (Beatus Rhenanus), began, for he could not
admit in his Basle edition in 1533 of the works of Tacitus that the language of that Roman
was equal to the language of Livy, being florid, affected, stiff and unnatural; his observation
being, that "though Tacitus was without elegance and purity in his language, from Latin in
his time being deteriorated by foreign turns and figures of speech; yet there was one thing
he retained in its entirety, and that was blood and marrow in his matter": "Quamvis Tacitus
caruerit nitore et puritate linguae, abeunte jam Romano sermone in peregrinas formas atque
figuras; succum tamen et sanguinem rerum incorruptum retinuit." Eight years after the famous
Tuscan lawyer and scholar, Ferretti, followed by accusing Tacitus in the preface to the edition
of his works published at Lyons in 1541, of writing with inelegance and impurity: "consequently,"
he says, "in the estimation of eminent literary men Tacitus is not to be ranked after, but
rather before Livy; and yet his style, which was florid, though smacking of the thought and
care that pleased in the days of Vespasian and his son, and which, from that time,--on account
of the Latin language gradually declining in purity,--steadily degenerated into a kind of affected
composition, ought not to be placed on a par with nor preferred to Livy's, whose language flows
naturally and agreeably, for his was the age of the greatest purity": "Unde factum, ut praestantium
in literis virorum judicio Livio non sit postponendus Tacitus, quin potius anteferendus: non
quod hujus floridum, ac meditationem et curam olens dicendi genus, quale sub Vespasianis placuit,
ac indies exin degeneravit in affectatam quandam compositionem, exolescente paulatim sermonis
latini puritate, Livianae dictioni, illi naturaliter amabiliterque fluenti (nam id seculum
purissimum fuit), aequari debeat, aut praeferri." Next came the Milanese schoolman, Alciati,
who preferred the certainly sometimes elegant and polished phrases of Paulus Jovius (in his
letter to Jovius himself prefixed to the edition of 1558 of the renowned Bishop of Nocera de'
Pagani's principal production, the 45 books of Historia Sui Temporis):--"they will not ask
of you the reason why you have not reached the soft exuberance of Livy, after you have thoroughly
regretted imitating the calm solemnity of Sallust, and been satisfied with only the few flowers
you have plucked with a discriminative hand out of the gardens of Quintus Curtius more frequently
than the thorny thickets of Cornelius Tacitus": "Non reposcent a te rationem, cur lacteam Livii
ubertatem non sis assecutus; postquam et te omnino piguerit Sallustii sobrietatem imitari,
et satis tibi fuerit pauculos tantum flores ex Quinti Curtii pratis, soepius quam ex Cornelii
Taciti senticetis arguta manu decerpsisse." Then succeeded, as fast as flakes falling in a
snow-storm, a long string of acute critics, each with his just objections, and each more pointed
than his predecessors in his animadversions, down to the present day, when, I suppose it may
be said that the eminent Dr. Nipperdey stands foremost amongst the exposers of the bad Latinity
of Tacitus. The Tacitus, thus universally proclaimed, and for nearly a dozen generations, not
to be a competent master of his own tongue, is not the Tacitus of the History, it is the "Tacitus"
of the Annals; and when hereafter I point out who this "Tacitus" of the Annals was,--an Italian
"Grammaticus," or "Latin writer" of the fifteenth century,--the reader will not be at all surprised
that he every now and then slips and trips in Latin;--on the contrary, the reader would be
amazed if it were not so; because he would regard it as a thing more than phenomenal,--as a
matter partaking of the miraculous;--he must consider himself as coming in contact with a being
altogether superhuman;--if the "Tacitus" of the fifteenth century, who, as a Florentine, may
have been a complete master of the choicest Tuscan, had written with the correctness of the
Tacitus of the first century, who, as befitted a "civis Romanus" of consular rank, was perfectly
skilled in his native tongue;--aye, quite as much so as Livy, Sallust, or any other accomplished
man of letters of ancient Rome.

I.--An anecdote is told of our present sovereign that, on one occasion, conversing with the
celebrated scene painter and naval artist, Clarkson Stanfield, her Majesty, hearing that he
had been an "able-bodied seaman," was desirous of knowing how he could have left the Navy at
an age sufficiently early to achieve greatness by pursuing his difficult art. The reply of
Stanfield was that he had received his discharge when quite young in consequence of a fall
from the fore-top which had lamed him,--and for the remainder of his life,--whereupon the Queen
is stated to have exclaimed: "What a lucky tumble!" In a similar strain the author of the Annals,
after he had handed over his work, according to the custom of his time, for transcription,
must have been induced to exclaim, when he marked how the monk who had put his thoughts on
vellum, had made him write nonsense in almost every other sentence: "What a lucky transcriber!"
The knowledge that he would have a transcriber, who was no adept in Latin, must have been one
of the greatest factors in his calculations as a forger. Otherwise how could he entertain the
shadow of a hope that his book could pass current, when, in order that it should take its place
in the first rank of Roman classics, it was imperative that he should write Latin to perfection.
That was impossible; and his fabrication must have been detected immediately upon its publication,
even though his age was destitute of philological criticism, unless everybody had known that
the scribes in convents who copied the classics were famous for committing endless blunders
in their transcriptions. Thus, his good fortune stood steadfastly by him all through his extraordinary
forgery; at its initiation as well as during the subsequent stages of it.

There was in his time a regular profession of transcribers, who may be looked upon as the precursors
of printers. Numbered among them were some who had great fame for transcribing;--learned men,
who knew Latin almost, if not quite, as well as they knew their mother-tongue, Cosimo of Cremona,
Leonardo Giustiniani of Venice, Guarino of Verona, Biondo Flavio, Gasparino Barzizza, Sarzana,
Niccoli, Vitturi, Lazarino Resta, Faccino Ventraria, and some others;--in fact, a host; for
nearly all the literary men, in consideration of the enormous sums they obtained for copies
of the ancient classics carefully and correctly written, devoted themselves to the occupation
of transcription, as, in these times, men of the highest attainments in letters, some, too,
of the greatest, even European, celebrity, give their services, for the handsome remunerations
they receive, to the newspaper and periodical press. But, in the fifteenth century, the vast
majority of writers of manuscripts,--those who were in general employment from not commanding
the high prices obtained by the "crack" transcribers, and might be compared to "penny-a-liners"
among us, suppliers of scraps of news to the papers,--were still to be found only in convents,
knowing more about ploughs than books, and for literary acquirements standing on a par with
professors of handwriting and dancing masters of the present day. These monkish transcribers
wrote down words as daws or parrots articulate them; for just as these birds do not know the
meaning of what they utter, so these scribes in monasteries did not understand the signification
of the phrases which they copied. We can easily understand how to these manipulators of the
pen an infinite number of passages in the Annals, which are still "posers" to the most expert
classical professors in the leading Universities of Europe, must have been as dark as the Delphic
Oracle,--or the Punic speech of the Carthaginian in Plautus's Comedy of Poenulus to everybody
(except, of course, the great Oriental linguist, Petit, who knew all about it, for in the second
book of his "Miscellaneorum Libri Novem" he explains the whole speech, without the slightest
fear of anybody correcting the mistakes into which he fell).

The jumble occasioned by the interminable blunders of the monastic writers (for there were
two of them, as will he hereafter seen) causes both the codices of the Annals to be phenomena
for confusion. Unique as literary gems, and preserved in the Laurentian Medicean Library in
Florence, they are the greatest attraction to literary sightseers visiting the lucky library
in which they are carefully deposited; and, I believe, have a fancy value set upon them as
a fancy value is set upon the Koh-i-noor.

Any member of the medical faculty, even the latest licentiate of the Apothecaries Hall, who
knows the fatal effect of wear and tear upon the system caused by ceaseless worry, can explain
why Philippo Beroaldi the Younger departed this life five years after undergoing the labour
of preparing for the press at the order of Leo X. the MS. found in the Westphalian Convent,
containing the first six books of the Annals. When we consider the chaos in which that dismal
MS. presented itself to the eyes of the unfortunate Professor in the University of Rome, we
can readily conceive how he must have consulted, as he told us he did, "the learned, the judicious
and the subtle" about the correction of errors of the knottiest nature which came upon him
so fast that, to express their abundance, he instinctively borrows his figure of speech, from
water gushing from a fountain or coming down in a cataract:-- "the old manuscript," says he,
"from which I have undertaken to transcribe and publish this volume, gushes forth with a multiplicity
of blunders:"--"vetus codex, unde hunc ipsum describendum atque invulgandum curavi, pluribus
mendis scatet." One example, out of a legion, will suffice:--In the passage in the eleventh
book where Narcissus is represented begging pardon of Claudius for not having told him of Messalina's
intrigue, the MSS. at Florence and Rome run thus (according to the report of James Gronovius):
"Is veniam in praeteritum petens quod ci CIS V&CTICIS PLAUCIO DIMU-lavisset." Half a century
before, Vindelinus of Spire,-- who distributed books to all the inhabitants of the world as
Triptolemus of old distributed corn,--broke the back-bone of this gibberish, when first publishing
the concluding books (from that Vatican MS. which is no longer to be found), by editing "quod
eicis Vecticis Plautio dissimu lavisset." Beroaldi altered this to "quod ei cis Vectium Plaucium
dissimu lavisset." This was retained in all editions, as the best that could be thought of,
till Justus Lipsius, who collated the MSS. of Tacitus in the Vatican Library, as he collated
the MSS. of other ancient authors in that and the Farnese and Sfortian Libraries, during his
two years stay in Rome, changed it to "quod ei cis Vectium cis Plautium dissimu lavisset."
So for a century that remained as the latest improvement till again amended by John Frederic
Gronovius, who, seeing the Vatican and Florentine MSS. while searching the treasures of literature
in Italy during his tour in that country, edited cis Vectios cis Plautios. Most editors adopt,
according to fancy, the rendering of Lipsius or Gronovius, on account of Vectius Valens and
Plautius Lateranus being two distinguished Romans in the days of Claudius who intrigued with
Messalina. For my own part, I prefer the conjectural emendation of the Bipontine editors who,
giving up as hopeless the corrupted passage, edit "quod incestae uxoris flagitia dissimu lavisset,"
which, if not precisely what was written, carries with it the recommendation of being intelligible,
and doing away with the unmeaning cis.

On account of the corruption of the text in the two oldest MSS. that supply the Annals,--the
First and Second Florence,--I am aware what care must be taken, when touching upon the Latin
in the Annals, not to ascribe to the author faults that were the errors of other people. One
ought to be guarded when coming across "reditus," which ought to be "rediturus" (II. 63), and
"datum," which ought to be "daturum" (II. 73).

I must pause to observe that, here as elsewhere, in examining the Latinity of the Annals, I
cite from the original editions of the last six books by Vindelinus of Spire published in 1470,
and the first six books by Beroaldus published in 1515, all editions now in use having "rediturus"
and "daturum," but without the authority of a single MS.

These blunders we may fairly father on the monkish transcribers, the more so as their handiworks
abound with faults, arising from one of these four causes,--inability of perceiving propriety
of expression; which people call "stupidity"; disinclination to the requisite exertion; known
as "laziness";--misunderstanding the meaning of the author, or destitution of knowledge.

The errors that spring from ignorance are the most striking; they show the purely negative
state of the transcribers' minds; how uninformed they were of facts, and how uninstructed in
arts, literature or science. Evidently the transcriber of the first Six Books had never heard
of the "Sacerdotes Titii," and seeing that the author had mentioned Tatius in the first portion
of the clause in a passage in the First Book (54), he writes "Sodales Tatios," instead of "Sodales
Titios";--"ut quondam Titus Tatius retinendis Sabinorum sacris sodales Tatios instituerat";
just as evidently, from ignorance of the language, having no notion what the author was saying
in another passage in the Second Book (2), but seeing that he had used the word "majorum" in
the previous sentence, he writes nonsensically "ipsorum majoribus" for "ipsorum moribus" (II.
2); nor knowing what the "propatulum" was in a Roman house, but misled by the author having
almost immediately before (IV. 72) spoken of "soldiers being fastened to the patibulum"--or,
as we should say, "hanged on the gallows,"--he writes (IV. 74), "in propatibulo servitium"
instead of "in propatulo servitium," the "propatulum" being an open uncovered court-yard, differing
from the "aedium," as being in the forepart of the dwelling.

How illiterate he and the transcriber of the last Six Books were will be seen in examples and
remarks by Kritz in his Prolegomena to Velleius Paterculus; by Doederlein in his Preface to
his edition of Tacitus; by Ernesti in his Notes to the Annals; by Sauppe, the able editor of
the Oratores Attici, in his Epistolae Criticae, addressed to his learned relation, Godfrey
Hermann, and, above all, by Herae, in his "Studia Critica," or elaborate treatise on the Florentine
Manuscripts of Tacitus. Both transcribers seem to have had a taste for rhyming and to have
thought that the beauty of writing Latin consisted in obtaining jingles, to get which they
mix up two words into one, as "sanus repertus," for "sane is repertus" (VI. 14); or coining,
as "templores flores," for "templorum fores" (II. 82); or changing the termination of a word,
in order that it may resemble in sound, the word that follows, as "donaria militaria" for "dona
militaria" (I. 44); or the word that precedes, as "potuisset tradidisset" for "potuisset tradi"
(XII. 61).

The same bungling is shown with respect to adjectives, the number, gender and case of which
are changed, as "tristios primordio," for "tristiores primordio" (I. 7); "amore an odio incertas"
for "amore an odio incertum" (XIII. 9), and "conquerentium irritum laborem," for "conquerente
irritum laborem" (XV. 17). The number, mood and tense of verbs are also changed as "quotiens
concordes agunt spernuntur: Parthus," for "quotiens concords agunt, spernitur Parthus" (VI.
42); "nationes promptum habere" for "nationes promptum habaret," and "neque dubium haberetur"
for "neque dubium habetur." (XII. 61).

They sometimes succeed, from their stupidity or laziness, in completely puzzling the reader
by omitting syllables, and transposing and substituting consonants and vowels, thus producing
the most confounding gibberish, as "pars nipulique" for "Pharasmani Polemonique" (XIV. 26);
or adding a letter, as "mortem" for "morem" (III. 26), or omitting a syllable, as "effunt"
for "effundunt" (VI. 33). From the same fault they every now and then double a letter, as "Amissiam"
for "Amisiam", or omit one of the double letters, as "anteferentur" for "anteferrentur" (1.
8); or, when two words occur, one ending, and the other beginning with the same letter, they
either omit the last letter of the preceding word, as "eventu Suetonius" for "eventus Suetonius"
(XIV. 36), or the first letter of the following word as "quipped lapsum" for "quippe elapsum"
(V. 10). But it is in single syllables or words or letters that they most abound in errors,
frequently omitting them without the mark of a lacuna, or any defect; now they omit single
letters, when the second word begins with the same letter as that with which the first ends;
at times in the first word, as "victoria sacrari," for "victorias sacrari" (III. 18); at times
in the second word, as "ad eos" for "ad deos" (I. 11) now they add single letters as "vitae
ejus" for "vita ejus" (I. 9), or "auditurus" for "aditurus" (XV. 36); or voluntarily add a
syllable, that the termination of one word may correspond to the commencement of another, as
"Stratonicidive veneri" for "Stratonicidi Veneri" (III. 63), or repeat syllables or words (what
is called "dittography"), as "Cujus adversa pravitati ipsius, prospera ad fortunam ipsius referebat"
(XIV. 38). Puteolanus was the first to throw out the second ipsius, and substitute for it "reipublicae,"
which most of the editors of Tacitus have retained, though Brotier edits, I cannot help thinking
properly, on account of the antithesis in which the Author of the Annals delighted:--"whose
adversity he ascribed to his depravity, and whose prosperity to his good fortune":--"cujus
adversa, pravitati ipsius; prospera, ad fortunam referebat" (XIV. 38); so that the second ipsius
in the MS. is not wrong, only inelegant and unnecessary.

Having thus seen the nature of the errors committed by the transcribers, we may now pass on
to what we must consider as the errors of the writer. There is very little doubt that he alone
is responsible for the following: using the poetic form "celebris" for the prose form "celeber"--Romanis
haud perinde celebris (II. 88, in fin.), which so startled Ernesti that he is almost sure the
author must have written "celebratus;" still he would not dare to alter it on account of its
being repeated on two other occasions--Pons Mulvius in eo tempore celebris (XIII. 47): Servilius,
diu foro, mox tradendis rebus Romanis celebris (XIV. 19);--so merely contents himself with
the observation that "those who are desirous of writing elegant Latin will not imitate it:"
"studiosi elegantiae in scribendo non imitabuntur." Those desirous of attaining an elegant
style would not write as in the Annals, "exauctorare," with the meaning of "putting out of
the ranks and into the reserve," as when we find it stated that "a discharge should be given
to those who had served twenty years, and that those should be put out of the ranks and into
the reserve, who had gone through sixteen years' service, there to be kept as auxiliary troops,
free from the other duties which it was customary to render to the State, except that of repelling
the invasion of an enemy":--"missionem dari vicena stipendia meritis; exauctorari, qui senadena
fecissent, ac retineri sub vexillo, ceterorum immunes nisi propulsandi hostis" (An. I. 36);--
here we have a meaning of the word "exauctorare" very different from its sense of "a final
discharge," in which it is understood by Tacitus towards the opening of his History, when he
is describing the distracted state of Rome, and continues: "during such a crisis tribunes were
finally discharged, Antonius Taurus and Antonius Naso, from the body guard; Aemilius Pacensis
from the troops garrisoned at Rome, and Julius Fronto from the watch": "exauctorati per cos
dies tribuni, e praetorio Antonius Taurus et Antonius Naso; ex urbanis cohortibus Aemilius
Pacensis; e vigiliis Julius Fronto" (Hist. I. 20);--nor would a person desirous of writing
graceful Latin use "destinari" for being "elected" to an office, as "destinari consules" (An.
I. 3) where Tacitus uses "designari,"--"consule designato" (Hist I. 6).

Grammatical mistakes of the most extraordinary character are sometimes made. There is neglect
of indispensable attraction; "non medicinam illud" (I. 49) for "illam," and "non enim, preces
sunt istud" (II. 38) for "istae;"--proper Latinity requires that, in "nihil reliqui faciunt
quominus invidiam, misericordiam, metum et iras permoverent (I. 21), the four nouns should
be in either the ablative or genitive, and the verb in the present, with (as Dr. Nipperdey
says) moveant in preference to permoveant. "An" is used as an equivalent to "vel;"--"metu invidiae,
an (vel) ratus" (II. 22,) and as if synonymous with "sive," "sive fatali vecordia, an" (seu,
or sive) "imminentium periculorum remedium" (XI. 26.) In the sentence where Tiberius is described
as, according to rumour, being pained with grief at his own and the Roman people's contemptible
position for no other "reason" more than that Tacfarinas, a robber and deserter, would treat
with them like a regular enemy:-- we have the only instance in a classical composition reputed
to be written by an ancient Roman, of "alias" conveying the idea of cause, instead of being
an adverb of time:--"Nec alias magis sua populique Romani contumelia indoluisse Caesarem ferunt,
quam quod desertor et praedo hostium more agerat" (III. 73).

These errors we must believe to be the author's; considering their gravity, we are compelled
to ask ourselves the question: "Could this writer have been an ancient Roman?" If we answer
in the affirmative, how can we explain coming repeatedly across this sort of writing, "lacu
IN ipso" (XII. 56), that is, a monosyllabic preposition placed between a substantive and an
adjective or pronoun, a kind of composition found in the poets, but disapproved by the prose-writers,
who, if so placing a preposition, used a dissyllable and put the adjective first. Independently
of a monosyllabic preposition thus standing frequently between a substantive and an adjective
or pronoun (judice ab uno: III. 10--urbe ex ipsa: XII. 56--senatuque in ipso and urbe in ipsa:
XIV. 42 & 53.--portu in ipso XV. 18); there are other occasional abnormal collocations of the
preposition, such as, after two words combined by a copulative particle, or two of them: diisque
et patria coram (IV. 8), Poppaea et Tigellino coram (XV. 61) and between two words connected
by apposition: montem apud Erycum (IV. 43), uxore ab Octavia (IV. 43--XIII. 12). These usages
are not found in the other works ascribed to Tacitus, nor any of the ancient Latin prose-writers;
though common enough in the poets, the three instances being found in Virgil;--the first in
the Aeneid:--

   "Cum litora fervere late
    Prospiceres arce ex summa:"
    Aen. IV. 409-10;

   "Vespere ab atro
    Consurgunt venti:" Aen. V. 19-20

And--

   "Graditur bellum ad crudele Camilla:"
    Ib. XI. 535;

The second in the Georgics:

   "Si non tanta quies iret frigusque caloremque
   Inter:"
    Georg. II. 344;

And shortly after,

   "Pagos et compita circum:"
    Ib. 382;

And the third in the Aeneid:

   "Duros mille labores
    Rege sub Eurystheo, fatis Junonis iniquae,
    Pertulerit:"
    Aen. VIII. 291-3.

The Latinity, therefore, is good; but though good, it can scarcely be said to be that of an
ancient Roman; for an ancient Roman never resorted to such inflexions in prose, only when writing
poetry to get over the difficulties of rhythm; hence a modern European would easily fall into
the error, from taking the Latin of Virgil to be most perfect; and from deeming that what was
done in verse could, with equal propriety, be done in prose.

Though nothing could be more natural than for a modern European to think that the right Latin
for "good deeds," was "bona facta" (III. 40), an ancient Roman would have written "bene facta,"
just as he would have used for the expression "if bounds were observed," "si modus adhiberetur,"
not "si modus adjiceretur" (III. 6). He would have followed "inscitia" with a genitive, as
Tacitus, "inscitiam ceterorum" (Hist. I. 54), and not with a preposition, as "finis inscitiae
erga domum suam" (XI. 25), for "an end of ignorance of his family"; nor have used that noun
absolutely, as "quo fidem inscitiae pararet" (XV. 58); "in order that he should create a belief
in his ignorance." Instead of "hi molium objectus, hi proximas scaphas scandere" (XIV. 8),
for "some clambered up the heights that lay in front of them, some into the skiffs that were
nigh at hand," he would have used the participle, "moles objectas"; and written "loca opportuna"
instead of "locorum opportuna permunivit" (IV. 24), for "he fortified convenient places."

Ancient writers among the Romans, such as Cicero and Livy, used the comparative in both clauses
with quanto and tanto; the more recent writers, such as Tacitus and Sallust, used the comparative
with them in, at least, one clause. We find in the Annals these ablatives of quantus and tantus,
as if their real force was not known, used with the positive in both clauses. A European putting
into Latin: "the more closely he had at one time applied himself to public business, the more
wholly he gave himself up to secret debaucheries and vicious idleness;" would think his language
quite correct when he wrote: "quanto intentus olim publicas ad curas" (mark the place of the
monosyllabic preposition), "tanto occultos in luxus" (again), "et malum otium resolutus" (IV. 67).

A Roman did not use the verb "pergere" in the sense of "continuing or proceeding" in a matter,
only of "continuing or proceeding" where there is bodily motion. Yet the author of the Annals
for "things would come to a successful issue, that they were going on with," has "prospere
cessura, quae pergerent" (I. 28); an ancient Roman would have written "peragerent," as may
be seen from Livy, who expresses "I will go on with the achievements in peace and war": "res
pace belloque gestas peragam" (II. 1); Pliny, "let us now go on with the remainder": "reliqua
nunc peragemus" (N.H. VI. 32, 2); and Cornelius Nepos, "but he went on, not otherwise than
one would have thought, in his purpose": "tamen propositum nihilo secius peregit" (Att. 22).
As many will believe, contrary to myself, that this was a blunder of the copyist (notwithstanding
that it is not in the style of his blundering), I will not insist upon it; though I must insist
upon the following being an error on the part of the writer for "giving praises and thanks":--"laudes
et grates habentem" (I. 69): A Roman could not have said that: had he used "laudes et grates,"
his phrase would have been "laudes et grates agentem";--had he used "habentem," his phrase
would have been "laudes et gratiam" (or gratias) "habentem." "Diisque et patria coram)" (IV.
8), is much more in keeping with the ragged language of St. Jerome in his Vulgate than the
precision of Tacitus in his History:--There are two mistakes: the first is the collocation
of the preposition which has been already noticed; the second is the phrase "standing before
the eyes of a country," which is the real meaning of "patria coram"; it is akin to "looking
a matter in the face," which is met with,--(and which I almost deem elegant,)-- in the cumbrous
oratory of Lord Castlereagh, but which I should be very much astonished to discover had originated
from the lips of another statesman, the very opposite in speech of the renowned Foreign Secretary,--the
ornate and correct rhetorician, so famed for the concinnity of his phrases, the Earl of Beaconsfield.

II. From the diction point of view, the Annals could not have been written by Tacitus, as the
language at times is anybody's but his. When "ubi" signifies "where" (at the place itself),
and not "whither" (to a distance from the place where a person stands), "Answer me, Blaesus,
whither have you thrown the corpse?" "Responde, Blaese, ubi" (quo?) "cadaver abjeceris?" (I.
22) it is the language of Suetonius in that passage in the life of Galba, where he speaks of
Patrobius casting the Emperor's head into that place, where by Galba's order Patrobius's patron
had been assassinated; "eo loco, ubi" (quo) "jussu Galbae animadversum in patronum suum fuerat,
abjecit" (Galb. 20). When two words are coupled with que--que we have the language of the poets,
Virgil, Ovid, Terence, Silius Italicus, Manilius, and among prose writers, Sallust (exempli
gratia) "meque regnumque" (Jug. 10) when "infecta" is used in the sense of "poisoned," "infected":
"the times were so infected and soiled with sycophancy"--"tempora illa adeo infecta et adulatione
sordida fuere" (III. 65), we have the language of Pliny the Elder, when speaking of honey "not
being infected with leaves," that is, not having the taste of leaves--"minime fronde infectum"
(N.H. XIII. 13); and when "que," as if it were "et," means "too," or "also,"--"till that was
also forbidden": "donec idque vetitum" (IV. 74), and "his mines of gold, too": "aurariasque
ejus"(VI. 19), we have the language of Pliny the Younger, "me, too, from boyhood," "meque a
pueritia" (Ep. IV. 19). Just as Cicero uses "domestic" for "personal;"--"exempla domestica,
"my own speeches" the author of the Annals uses "at home" for "personal," and "personally";--"domi
artes" (III. 69), "personal qualities;"--"domi partam" (XIII. 42), "personally acquired." When
he desires to put into Latin: "How honourable their liberty regained by victory, and how much
more intolerable their slavery if again subdued," he writes: "quam decora victoribus libertas,
quanto intolerantior servitus iterum victis" (III. 45), misapplying "intolerantior" for "intolerabilior"
with Florus (IV. 12), who is clever in committing errors in grammar and geography. There is
ringing the changes with Livy, when we read in the Annals (II. 24) "quanto violentior, tantum"
(for tanto) "illa," and in the great Roman historian, "quantum" (for quanto) "laxaverat, tanto
magis" (Livy XXXII. 5). It is using, too, in the sense of Livy (XLI. 8, 5) the verb "differere,"
instead of the customary expression, "rejicere." The language is peculiar to himself when he
uses "differre" for "spargere" in the phrase "and to be spread abroad among foreigners": "differique
etiam per externos" (III. 12), as the style is peculiar to himself in omitting the past time
(fuisse) when no doubt is left by the preceding context or the immediate sequel in the same
sentence, that the past time is referred to in the passage where Silius boasts that "his soldiers
continued to be loyal, while others fell into sedition; and that his empire would not have
remained to Tiberius, if there had been a desire for revolution also in those legions of his":
"suum militem in obsequio duravisse, cum alii ad seditiones prolaberentur: neque mansurum Tiberio
imperium, si iis quoque legionibus cupido novandi fuisset" (IV. 18), where after "mansurum,"
according to Dr. Nipperdey, there should be "fuisse."

Further proof is afforded by the use of the word "imperator," that the diction in the Annals
is not that of Tacitus. Having lived in the time of the Caesars, he never could have heard
a countryman in speech or writing use "Imperator" other than as signifying one individual,
not the commander in chief of the army, but the occupant of the supreme civil authority, "Imperator"
being the noun proper of "imperium." In this restricted sense Tacitus always uses the word,
because it was understood with that signification by every Roman of his time. For example,
in his Agricola (39), he means by "imperatoria laus" "the renown in arms of the Emperor," who
was then Domitian. The author of the Annals, who was not aware of this nice distinction, uses
Imperator, not as it was used in the time of Tacitus, but as it was used in the days of the
Republic. He, too, like Tacitus, uses the noun in its adjectival form, but he does not apply
it, as Tacitus does, to that which belongs to the Emperor, but to that which belongs to a general;
for he means by "imperatoria laus" (II. 52), "the fame of a general," even of Germanicus. He
seems to have thought that it could be given to any member of the imperial house, for he applies
it without distinction to Germanicus, who was the son of an Emperor, as to the Emperors Caligula,
Claudius and Nero, when speaking of the daughter of Germanicus, Agrippina, who was the mother
of Nero, wife of Claudius and sister of Caligula: "quam imperatore genitam, sororem ejus, qui
rerum potitus sit, et conjugem et matrem fuisse" (XII. 42); he applies it even to the wife
of an Emperor's son, for he styles Agrippina, the wife of Germanicus, "imperatoria uxor" (I.
41); he gives the title to the barbarian generals among the Germans (II. 45), which no Roman
in the time of the Empire, or, perhaps, even of the Republic, could have possibly done; and,
further, to military chiefs, who corresponded then to our present generals of division, for,
when speaking of Caractacus as "superior in rank to other generals of the Britons," he expresses
himself: "ceteros Britannorum imperatores praemineret" (XII. 33).

That a modern European wrote the Annals is also very clear from the undistinguishing use in
that work of the cognate word, "princeps," which, like "imperator," had two different meanings
at two different periods of Roman history, meaning, in the time of the Republic, merely "a
leading man of the City," and, in the time of the Empire, the Emperor only. This every Roman,
of course, discriminated; hence Tacitus everywhere uses the word in its strictly confined sense
of "Emperor" (Hist. I. 4, 5, 56, 79 et al.). For "the leading men of the Country," his phrase
is not, as a Roman would have expressed himself in the Republican period, "principes viri urbis,"
but "primores civitatis." The author of the Annals, who was in the dark as to this, uses "principes"
in the Republican sense of "leading men," as occurs in the observation: "the same thing became
not the principal citizens and imperial people" (meaning, the aristocracy and freemen), "as
became humble" homes (meaning, the dregs of the populace), or, "States" (meaning, the occupants
of thrones): "non cadem decora principibus viris et imperatori populo, quae modicis domibus
aut civitatibus" (III. 6). He also misapplies the word to the sons of Emperors, as if he were
under the impression that they were styled "princes" by the ancient Romans as by modern Europeans,
for thus he speaks of the sons of Tiberius, Drusus and Germanicus: "except that Marcus Silanus
out of affront to the Consulate sought that office for the princes": "nisi quod Marcus Silanus
ex contumelia consulatus honorem principibus petivit" (III. 57).

The author of the Annals is quite as remarkable as Tacitus for antithesis: sometimes two antitheses
occur together in Tacitus in the same clause. He is as remarkable for an equal balancing of
phrases. But only in the Annals is the style of Tacitus mingled with the manner of some other
Roman writer, as the easy and flowing redundance of Livy (I. 32, 33); the peculiar alliterations,
triplets, ring of the sentences and flow of narrative of Sallust (XIV. 60-4), the antiquated
expressions, new words, Greek idioms, and concise and nervous diction throughout of that historian;
along with words and phrases, borrowed from the poets, especially Tibullus, Propertius, Catullus,
above all, Virgil.

There is neither in Tacitus, nor the author of the Annals, the strength and sublimity of expression
found in that great master of rhetoric, Cicero. The eloquence of Tacitus is grave and majestic,
his language copious and florid. The language of the author of the Annals is cramped; and he
maintains a dignified composure, rather than majesty; occasionally he has an inward laugh in
a mood of irony, as when commending Claudius for "clemency," in allowing a man,--whom he has
sentenced to execution, to choose his own mode of death. His close, dry way, too, of saying
things savours of harshness, and differs widely from the Greek severeness of manner observable
in Tacitus. The crucial test is to be found in a few trifling matters of style. So far from
displaying the same care as Tacitus to avoid a discordant jingle of three like endings, he
will write bad Latin to get at the intolerable recurrence. Rather than have a similar ending
to three words Tacitus will depart from his rule of composition which is to balance phrases,--"dissipation,
industry"; "insolence, courtesy";--"bad, good";--but to avoid a jingle he writes "luxuria,
industria"; comitate, arrogantia"; "malis bonisque artibus mixtus" (Hist. I. 10), his usual
style of composition requiring "luxuria, industria; arrogantia, comitate." He prefers incorrect
Latin to such sounds. He writes, "coque Poppaeam Sabinam--deposuerat" (Hist. I. 13), instead
of what the best Latinity required, "coque jam Poppaeam Sabinam." The author of the Annals,
not having his exquisite ear, nor abhorrence of inharmonious concurrence of sounds, actually
goes out of his way, by disregarding grammar, carefully to do Tacitus, also by disregard of
grammar, as carefully avoided, to procure three like endings, as "uterque opibusque atque honoribus
pervignere" (An. III. 27), when Tacitus would have unquestionably written, "uterque opibusque
et," and, moreover, have written correctly, because the Romans never followed "que" with "atque,"
always with "et."

The author of the Annals falls into the opposite fault of having three like beginnings as "adhuc
Augustum apud" (I. 5), which is in the style of Livy or Cicero, but not Tacitus. At the same
time no writer is so fond of alliteration as Tacitus; yet he resorts to it with so much judgment,
that it never grates on the ear, and with so much art that it all but passes notice. It is
perceptible in the Germany and the Agricola as well as the History; though in the latter work
it is carried to greater perfection, and is more systematically used, being found in almost
every paragraph. The rule with Tacitus is this:--When he resorts to alliteration in the middle
of a sentence where there is no pause, he uses words that differ in length, as "justis judiciis
approbatum" (Hist. I. 3), "tot terrarum orbe" (I. 4), "pars populi integra" (6); and so throughout
the History, till at the close, we find the same thing uniformly going on:--"miscebantur minis
promissa" (V. 24); "poena poenitentiam fateantur" (V. 25); "Vespasianum vetus mihi observantiam"
(V. 26). But--and particular attention is called to this--when the alliteration is found at
the end of a sentence, or (where there is a pause) in the middle of a sentence, he prefers
words of the same length, but different quantities, as, at the beginning of the History;--senectuti
seposui (I. l); "plerumque permixta; "sterile saeculum" (ibid); and so throughout the work
to the end, where we still find the same regularity of identical alliteration: "clamore cognitum"
(V. 18); "coepta coede" (V. 22); "oequoris electum" (V. 23); "merito mutare" (V. 24). This
peculiarity of composition, so distinctive of Tacitus, unfortunately for his forgery, ENTIRELY
escaped the attention of the author of the Annals; he seems to have thought that any kind of
alliteration, so long as it was constantly carried on, would sufficiently mark the style of
Tacitus. Accordingly he has all kinds of alliterations, except the right ones, for they are
quite different from, and, indeed, the very reverse of those of Tacitus; sometimes they are
twofold (I. 6); sometimes threefold (I. 5); sometimes even four together--"posita, puerili
praetexta principes" (I. 8);--from which last Tacitus would have shrunk with horror at the
sight, as Mozart is stated to have rebounded and swooned at the discordant blare of a trumpet.
As to using in the middle of sentences words that differ in length as a rule they do not, from
the first of the kind, "ortum octo" (I. 3), to the last of the kind, "voce vultu" (XVI. 29);
at the end of sentences, he uses words that, instead of not differing, do differ in from the
first of the kind, "Augustum adsumebatur" (I. 8), to the last of the kind "sortem subiret"
(XVI. 32) and "sestertium singulis" (XVI. 33).

After this overwhelming proof of forgery, I need not press another syllable upon the reader.
If not convinced by this, he will be convinced by nothing; for here is just that little blunder
which a forger is sure to make: so far from being insignificant it is all- important; it swells
out into proportions of colossal magnitude, at once disclosing the whole imposture, it being
absolutely impossible that Tacitus should have so systematically adhered to a particular kind
of alliteration in that part of his history which deals with Galba, Otho, Vitellius and Vespasian,
and have so suddenly and utterly neglected or ignored it in that part of the history which
deals with Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius and Nero.

END OF BOOK THE FIRST.

BOOK THE SECOND.

BRACCIOLINI.

    Si per se virtus sine fortuna ponderanda sit, dubito an hunc
    primum omnium ponam.
     CORNELIUS NEPOS. Thrasybulus.

Though I have dwelt on the harshness of style and manner, and the occasional inaccuracies in
grammar and language of the author of the Annals, it must not be supposed that I fail to appreciate
his merit. In some of the qualities that denote a great writer he is superior to Tacitus; nor
can anyone, not reading him in his original form, conceive an adequate notion of how his powers
culminate into true genius,--what a master he is of eloquence, and how happy in expressing
his very beautiful sentiments, which, sometimes having the nature of a proverb or an epigram,
please by the placing of a word. His general ideas are scarcely retained in a translation:
such a reproduction deprives them of the train of images and impressions which cluster round
them in his language of poetry and suggestion, giving them spirit and interest, and imparting
to them strength and ornament:--As winter is thrown over a landscape by the hand of nature,
so coldness is thrown over his page by the hand of a translator: the student who can familiarize
himself with his thoughts as expressed in the tongue in which he wrote, and reads a translation,
is in the position of a man who can walk in summer along the bank of a majestic river flowing
beautifully calm and stately by meadows pranked with flowers and woods waving in varied hues
of green, yet prefers visiting the scene in winter when life and freshness are fled, the river
being frozen, the flowers and greenness gone from the fields, and the leaves fallen from the trees.

The question arises,--Who was this wonderful man? If unknown, can he not be discovered?

John Leycester Adolphus, famous for his History of George the Third, discovered the author
of the Waverley Novels in Sir Walter Scott, when the Wizard of the North was styled "The Great
Unknown," by pointing out coincidences in the pieces and poems, known to be the productions
of Scott, in such matters as the correct morals, the refined manners, the Scotch words and
idioms, the descriptive power, the picturesque and dramatic fancy, the neat, colloquial turns
in dialogue, the quaint similes, the sprinkle of metaphors, the love of dogs, the eloquent
touches with regard to the pure and tender relations of father and daughter; and clinched the
investigation by showing the freedom and correctness in the use of law-terms and phrases, which
indicated clearly that the author was a lawyer. It being easy when a way has been shown to
follow in the track, I turned to the period in question, which, I knew, must be the first half
of the fifteenth century, to look for a writer, whose qualities, literary and moral,--or rather
immoral,--could win for him the triumphal car of being the Author of the Annals--if triumph
can, in any way, be associated with such ingloriousness as forgery,--and, after a little looking
about, I found him in one whose compositions display, not to a remote, but in a close degree
the energy, the animation, the feeling, the genius, the true taste, the deep meaning, and glimpses,
ever and anon, of that signal power, which, rising into truly awful magnificence, of looking
deeply into the darkest recesses of the human heart, runs through the Annals like the shining
waters of a river in whose rich sands roll grains of gold.

The age of that writer was instinct with mental power: men were giants of intellect: Italy
had soared to the highest pinnacle in the domain of mind, unequalled by preceding ages, except
those of Pericles and Augustus: beginning in the fourteenth Century with Dante and Petrarch,
and ending at the beginning of the sixteenth with the father of the modern political system,
Machiavelli, it rose to the highest point of its altitude, and remained there through the whole
of the fifteenth, when such bright lights shone constantly in the meridian of mind, as that
Prince of the Church, Cardinal Sadoleti, great as a poet, equally great as a philosopher, whose
poems on Curtius and the Curtian Lake and the Statue of Laocoon would have done honour to Virgil,
while in his "De Laudibus Philosophiae" Cicero lives again in style and manner of thinking.

During that long interval of splendour, achievements of the intellect are upon record that
fully establish the existence of the most remarkable genius. Poliziano in a letter (Ep. XII.
2) to Prince Pico of Mirandola tells of one of these marvellous feats that was done by a youthful
prodigy, only eleven years old, of the great family of Orsini (Fabius Ursinus). First young,
Fabio Orsini sang; then recited verses of his own: requested to turn the verse into prose,
he repeated the same thoughts unfettered by measure in an unassuming manner, and with an appropriate
and choice flow of expression. After that subjects were proposed to him for epistolary correspondence,
on which he was to dictate ex tempore to five amanuenses at once, the subjects given being
"of a nature so novel, various, and withal so ludicrous that he could not have been prepared
for them": after a moment's pause he dictated a few words to the first amanuensis on one subject;
gave his instructions on a different theme to the second; proceeded in like manner with the
rest, then returning to the first, "filled up every chasm and connected the suspended thread
of his argument so that nothing appeared discordant or disjointed," and, at the same instant,
finished the five letters. "If he lives," concluded Poliziano, "to complete the measure of
his days," and "perseveres in the path of fame, as he has begun, he will, I venture to predict,
prove a person, whom, for admirable qualities and attainments, mankind must unite to venerate
as something more than human."

In that age some men had such an enthusiastic predilection to antiquity that they were animated
by an ardent zeal for collecting ancient manuscripts, medals, inscriptions, statues, monumental
fragments, and other ancient and classical remains. Others, again, were suspected of the intention
to impose their own productions on the public as works of antiquity; one man, who never ceased
to regret that it had not been his lot to live in the days of Roman splendour, Peter of Calabria,
styled himself in his Commentaries on Virgil, Julius Pomponius Sabinus, and in his notes to
Columella, Julius Pomponius Fortunatus, his object in both instances being that he should be
mistaken for some Roman who had flourished in the purest ages of Latinity; and Foy-Vaillant,
the celebrated numismatist of the seventeenth century, actually places him, in one of his numismatical
works, in the list of ancient authors, while Justus Lipsius and Pithaeus both took him to have
been a "Grammaticus", or "writer in Latin," of the earlier middle ages, all the time that he
was an Italian academician, who flourished in the fifteenth century, having been born in 1425
at a place that has been called "The Garden of Almond Trees,"-- Amendolara, in Upper Calabria.

It would be idle to suppose that the author of the Annals was actuated by the simple purpose
of Peter of Calabria; there is ground for believing that some deeper, and less pure, motive
instigated him to commit forgery. Though no Peter of Calabria, he was a matured Fabio Orsini;
and the only drawback from his fabricated work is that it is not to be looked upon as Roman
history, always in the most reliable shape, but rather as a form of the imagination which he
selected for expressing his views on humanity;--to paint crime; to castigate tyranny; to vindicate
honesty; to portray the abomination of corruption, the turpitude of debauchery and the baseness
of servility;--to represent fortitude in its strength and grandeur, innocence in its grace
and beauty, while standing forth the sturdy admirer of heroism and freedom; the tender friend
of virtue in misfortune; the austere enemy of successful criminality, and the inflexible dispenser
of good and evil repute.

That a man of such great parts and extensive learning, with such fine thoughts, beautiful sentiments
and wise reflections;--such a cool, abstracted philosopher, yet such an over-refined politician;--such
a gloomy moralist, yet such an acute, fastidious observer of men and manners, was a cloistered
monk or any obscure individual whatever was an idea to be immediately dispelled from the mind,
for that the Annals was composed by such a man would have been about as incomprehensible an
occurrence, as it would be impossible to conceive that an acrobat who exercises gymnastic tricks
upon the backs of galloping horses in an American circus could discharge the functions of a
First Lord of the Treasury or a Justice in the High Court of Judicature, or that a pantaloon
in a Christmas pantomime could think out the Principia of Sir Isaac Newton or the Novum Organum
of Lord Bacon. The fact was, the author was a conspicuous, shining light of his generation;
the associate of princes and ministers; who, from the commanding position of his exalted eminence,
cast his eyes over wide views of mankind that stretched into sweeping vistas of artifice and
dissimulation; and who, for close upon half a century, participated prominently in the active
business,--the subdolous and knavish politics,--of his time.

II. Everybody knows the fable of the old man, the boy and the ass; but not one in a thousand
knows that it was written nearly four hundred years ago by a man who for forty years was a
member of the Secretariate to nine Popes, from Innocent VII. to Calixtus III. First in the
Bugiale of the Vatican, where the officers of the Roman Chancery, when discussing the news
of the day, were making merry with sarcasms, jests, tales and anecdotes, one of the party having
observed that those who craved popularity were chained to a miserable slavery, it being impossible
from the variety of opinions that prevailed to please everybody, some approving one course
of conduct, and others another, the fable in question was narrated in confirmation of that
statement.

Poggio Bracciolini was not only the author of that fable, I am now about to bring forward reasons
for believing, and with the view of inducing the reader to agree with me, that he,--and nobody
else but he,--was the writer of the Annals of Tacitus.

He was in every way qualified to undertake, and succeed in, that egregious task. He was one
of the most profound scholars of his age, more learned than Traversari, the Camaldolese, and
if less learned than Andrea Biglia, superior to the Augustinian Hermit in a more natural, easy
and cultivated style of composition and in a wider knowledge of the world: acquainted somewhat
with Greek and slightly with Hebrew, he possessed a masterly and critical knowledge of Latin
which he had carefully studied in his native city, Florence, with the most accomplished Latinist
of the day, Petrarch's valued friend, the illustrious Giovanni Malpaghino of Ravenna.

Bracciolini was not of a character to have revolted at the baseness of fabrication;--an inordinate
love of riches, more devouring in his breast than his next strongest passion, love of knowledge,
was sufficient to egg him on to it. Throughout life, his moral conduct was unfavourably influenced
by the scantiness of his means. It was to beguile the anxiety occasioned by his narrow circumstances
that he devoted himself to intense study, from knowing that superior attainments combined with
splendid talents would secure for him great offices of trust and profit: he saw how those who
were esteemed the most learned as well as the most able gained the best lucrative posts under
the governments of the Popes and Princes of his day: he, therefore, employed himself in the
pursuit of knowledge for the sake of attaining high rank and great wealth; knowledge was, accordingly,
only so far pursued by him as it would be productive of money, and get him through the world
in honour and affluence. Up to the age of twenty-six he had the run of, what was then considered,--when
good manuscripts were uncommonly costly and very scarce,--a magnificent library of 800 volumes,
that belonged to his veteran friend, Coluccio Salutati, Chancellor of the Republic of Florence;
amid those stores of knowledge he courted the Muses ardently, all the while cultivating diligently
the acquaintance of the leaders of society, uniting the character of the scholar with that
of the man of the world, and becoming as accomplished in politeness and as profound in mastery
of the human heart as in scholarship and learning;--qualities conspicuous in his acknowledged
writings, no less than in that extraordinary masterpiece, the Annals of Tacitus.

Notwithstanding that the period in which he flourished was remarkable for its number of men,
who, by their genius and learning revived the golden ages of ancient literature, he was admitted
by all to be without his equal, be it in erudition or intellect, power of writing or intimacy
with Latin. Guarino of Verona, in spite of the severity with which he was treated by him in
his controversies, likens him, in one of his Epistles (Ep. Egreg. Viro Poggio Flor. 26 Maji
1455), to "the purest models of antiquity," and commends him for his "vigorous eloquence and
encyclopaedic stores of information": "pristini socculi floret, et viget eloquentia, virtutisque
thesaurus." Another of the best spirits of that age, Benedotto Accolti of Arezzo, in his work
on the Eminent Men of his Time, puts him on a level with, if not superior to any of the ancient
historians, Livy and Sallust alone excepted; for he says, "some of whom" (he is speaking, along
with Bracciolini, of Bruni, Marsuppini, Guarino, Rossi, Manetti, and Traversari) "so wrote
history, that, with the exception of Livy and Sallust, there were none of the ancients to whom
they might not justly be considered as equal or superior"--"quorum aliqui ita historias conscripserunt,
ut Livio et Sallustio exceptis, nulli veterum sint, quibus illi non pares aut superiores fuisse
recte existimentur" (Benedict. Accoltus Arez. in Dial. de Praest. Viris sui aevi. Muratori.
t. XX. p. 179). L'Enfant does not make this exception, for, speaking of Bracciolini's History
of Florence, he says, that in "reading it one is reminded of Livy, Sallust and the best historians
of antiquity":--"A legard de son Histoire, on ne sauroit le lire sans y reconnoitre Tite Live,
Salluste, et les meilleurs historiens de l'antiquite" (Poggiana, Vol. II. p. 83). Sismondi,
too, in the opening pages of the 8th volume of his "Histoire des Republiques Italiennes du
Moyen Age," says in a footnote (p. 5) that Bracciolini, in common with Leonardo Bruni and Coluccio
Salutati carried off the palm as a Latin writer from all his predecessors in the fourteenth
century:--"a la fin du siecle on vit paroitre Leonardo Bruni, dit d'Aretin, Poggio Bracciolini,
et Coluccio Salutati, qui devoient l'emporter, comme ecrivains Latins, sur tous leurs predecesseurs."
Although Sismondi is quite right as to the date when Bruni and Salutati flourished, he is altogether
wrong in supposing that Bracciolini made an appearance before the public at any time in the
fourteenth century; quite at the end of it he was only in his twentieth year: the next century
had well advanced towards the close of its first quarter before (with the exception of some
Epistles) he began to write, which was not until after he had passed his fortieth year.

Along with these superior merits of an intellectual writer thus freely accorded to him by some
of his more distinguished contemporaries and by illustrious historians, Bracciolini possessed
the plastic power that makes the forger. He wrote in a great variety of styles and manners;
sometimes treating subjects with condensation, and sometimes with diffusiveness. His language
is elevated and his sentences are rounded and smooth in his Funeral Orations, in which there
is no inflation, nothing declamatory, a perfect absence of straining after effect, yet a rising
with ease into veins of sublime rhetoric, while he is close, severe and antique:--hence the
principal position that is given to him as an orator by Porcellio in a poem where Marsuppini
is called upon to chaunt the praises of Ciriano of Ancona (see Tiraboschi, VI. 286): in ascribing
to Marsuppini the place of honour, Porcellio leaves others who are inferior in verse-making
to follow; such as, he says, "the Orator Poggio, the sublime Vegio, and Flavio, the Historian":--

    Tuque, Aretine, prior, qui cantas laude poetam,
    Karole, sic jubeo, sit tibi primus honos.
    Post alii subeant: Orator Poggius ille,
    Vegius altiloquus, Flavius Historicus.

Then it would seem that, as Vegio and Biondo Flavio were, in the opinion of Porcellio, unsurpassed,
the first, for the sublimity of his diction, and the second, by his historical writing, so
Bracciolini was lifted by his oratory above all his contemporaries. Wit, polish, and keen sarcasm,
with abundance of acute observations on the human character, distinguish his Essay on Hypocrisy,
published at Cologne in 1535 by Orthuinus Gratius Daventriensis in his "Fasciculus Rerum Expetendarum
et Fugiendarum." His Letters are written in an easy, agreeable style, with constant sportiveness
and endless felicity of expression. In his Dialogues he is delicate, lively, and careful. Facility
and happiness of diction are conspicuous in his "Description of the Ruins of the City of Rome,"
along with accuracy and picturesqueness in representation of objects. But whatever he did,
all his writings (including the Annals), bear the stamp of one mind: they indicate alike the
predominance of three powers exercised in an equal and uncommon degree, and without which no
one can stand, as he does, on the loftiest pedestal of literary merit,--sensibility, imagination
and judgment, working together like one compact, indivisible faculty.

In addition to this versatility in composition, which enabled him to imitate any writer, his
career fitted him for the production of the Annals by instilling into his mind the peculiar
principles of morals and behaviour which find apt illustration in that work. No one could have
written that book who had not been admitted within the veil which hides the daily transactions
of the great from the profane eyes of the vulgar; and who had not come into frequent personal
contact with courts that were corrupt, and with princes, ministers and leading men of society
who were objects of unqualified abhorrence.

III. Young Bracciolini who as the son of a notary of Florence in embarrassed circumstances,
inherited no advantages of rank or fortune, when he had attained, at the age of 23, a competent
knowledge of the learned languages under the instruction of Malpaghino, Chrysolaras [Endnote
136] and a Jewish Rabbi, made his first entry into life by receiving admission, perhaps,--it
being the common custom in the fifteenth century,--by purchase, into the Pontifical Chancery
as a writer of the Apostolic Letters. At that early age the scene that opened itself to his
eyes was calculated to destroy all faith in the goodness of human nature. He found in the occupant
of St. Peter's Chair, in Boniface IX., a man, ambitious, avaricious, insincere in his dealings,
and guilty of the most flagrant simony, bestowing all Church preferments upon the best bidder,
without regard to merit or learning, and making it his study to enrich his family and relations.

Bracciolini did not come into the closest communion with the Popes till he became their Principal
Secretary, which was when he was between forty and fifty years of age, Aeneas Sylvius Piccolomini,
afterwards Pius II., stating in the 54th chapter of his History of Europe that he "dictated"
(or caused to be written) "the Pontifical Letters during the time of three Popes";-"Poggium
... qui Secretarius Apostolicas tribus quondam Romanis Pontificibus dictarat Epistolas";--and
though Aeneas Sylvius does not mention the names of the Pontiffs, he must have meant Martin
V. (1417), Eugenius IV. (1431) and Nicholas V. (1447). Nevertheless, as one of the writers
of the Apostolic Letters, Bracciolini was in a position to have seen a great deal that left
a lasting impression on his mind of the wickedness of a corrupt court, the Papal one at this
period being thus described by Leonardo Bruni, to Francis, Lord of Cortona:--"full of ill-designing
people, too apt to suspect others of crimes, which they themselves would not scruple to commit,
and some, out of love for calumny, taking delight in spreading reports, which they themselves
did not credit"; so that when Innocent VII. died suddenly of apoplexy, the rumour gained belief
that he had been poisoned, a violent death seeming quite a natural end to a life of leniency
to murder.

Not one star of light shone across the long and dreary gloom of the papal court experiences
of Bracciolini. On the deposition of Gregory XII. for that Pope's duplicity and share in the
intrigues and dissensions which disgraced the Pontifical palace for three years, Bracciolini
seems to have retired from Rome, and to have remained a resident in Florence during the greater
part of the ten months' reign of the mild, pious and philosophical Alexander V., the only able
and virtuous divine, who sat in those dark times on St. Peter's throne.

IV. For losing that one glimpse of light in public life, Bracciolini was more than compensated
by a beam of beneficent Fortune in his private career, which threw such lustre on his path,
that it rescued him from what must have been his inevitable fate, morbid cynicism: it was one
of the happiest incidents that ever occurred to him:--he formed the acquaintance of a man,
seventeen years his senior--who, in the lapse of a very short time, became to him a father
and adviser, to whom present or absent he imparted every one of his schemes, thoughts, cares,
sayings and doings; who was the unfailing allayer of his anxieties, alleviator of his sorrows,
and most constant support of all his undertakings,--Niccolo Niccoli,--of whom I must take notice,
as he was one of the most active stimulators of the forgery of the Annals.

Though by no means affluent, and frequently straitened in circumstances ("homo nequaquam opulens,
et rerum persaepe inops," says Bracciolini of him, Or. Fun. III.), nevertheless, he made enough
money, as well as possessed the munificent spirit to build at his own expense, and present
to the Convent of the Holy Spirit in Florence an edifice in which to deposit the books bequeathed
to the Brothers by Boccaccio; and, at his death, he left to the public in the same City his
own manuscripts, which he had accumulated at great cost and with much pains. He was one of
the few laymen, not to be found out of Italy, who had learning and a knowledge of Latin, which
he had acquired with that eminent scholar, philosopher and theologian, about half a dozen of
whose works have come down to us, Ludovicus Marsilius; but learning and Latin were essential
to the carrying on of his very pleasant and most lucrative occupation;--that of amending and
collating manuscripts previous to their disposal for coin; a business, in which, we are told
by Bracciolini, that he surpassed everybody in excessive expertness ("solertissimus omnium
fuit in emendis ac comparandis libris fructuosissima ac pulcherrima omnium negotiatione," Or.
in Fun. Nic. Nic.); we can, consequently, conceive what immense sums he must have received
for manuscripts of the best ancient Greek and Roman classics, when properly spelt, correctly
punctuated, and freed from errors.

His qualities, as enumerated by his friend, Bracciolini, in a most enthusiastic Funeral Oration
over his remains (Pog. Op. 273-4), were such as to show, if there be no exaggeration in the
description of him, that he was as much a wonder as any of the great Oracles of his age. His
attainments were varied; his information extensive; his judgment sound, and to be relied upon,
being given not for the mere sake of assent nor for flattery, but for what he believed to be
true; "he got into a considerable sweat," says Bracciolini, "when he read Greek," ("in Graecis
literis plurimum insudavit"), but was enabled to range over every department of literature
in Latin, of which his knowledge was critical and most masterly, for the same authority assures
us "not a word could be mentioned, the force and etymology of which he did not know"--"nullum
proferebatur verbum cujus vim et originem ignoraret" in geography he stood without a rival;
for, his memory, being like a vice, retaining everything he read, even to names, he knew the
minutiae, of every country better than those who had been residents in them; though he rarely
practised the art, he was a master of rhetoric; as a conversationist he held his company in
entranced silence from the wisdom of his remarks, the dulcet flow of his words, and his transcendent
memory bringing together from all quarters, with appropriateness to every subject under discussion,
the valuable stock of his miscellaneous reading. Nothing could be more natural than that such
a wonderful instance of the human intellect should court the congenial society of lovers of
learning; he made his house the resort for them; and he placed at the disposal of the studious
his library, which was the best in Florence, now that Salutati's, after his death, had been
disposed of by his sons at auction.

Bracciolini was so struck by the attainments and captivated by the character of this man, that
an acquaintance casually formed speedily ripened into an intimacy of the most confidential,
cordial and communicative kind. Bracciolini, during his stay in Florence, was a guest in the
house of Niccoli; and there, for nearly a year, he resumed and pursued his studies with ardour
amid the rich stores of the large and select assortment of manuscripts, amounting to not far
from a thousand in number. He was thus adding to the treasures of his lore with daily assiduity,
when the news reached Florence that Cardinal Cossa had (notwithstanding the well-known virtues
of Alexander V.) poisoned his predecessor, and had been elected to the pontifical chair by
the title of John XXIII.

Behold Bracciolini once more in the palace of the Pontiffs of Rome; and now acting, in the
capacity of Secretary, or, more properly, writer of the Apostolic Letters, to a Pope who was
a poisoner. John XXIII. was even worse than that: he was a most atrocious violator of laws,
human and divine; and some crimes he committed were so heinous that it would be indecent to
place them before the public. One can imagine how agreeable must have been the occupation to
that Pope of a military rather than an ecclesiastic turn, and fonder of deeds of violence and
bloodshed than of acts of meekness and Christianity, when he was presiding at Constance over
that General Council, which sent to the stake those Bohemian followers of the Morning Star
of the Reformation, Huss and Jerome of Prague, to be burnt alive, according to general belief,
with their clothes and everything about them, even to their purses and the money in them, and
their ashes to be thrown into the Rhine; but, as will be immediately seen, from the account
of an eye-witness, in a state of perfect nudity.

V. Bracciolini, who witnessed the burning of Jerome of Prague, gives a description of it in
one of his Epistles, in a manner equal to anything that may be found in the Annals;--indeed,
many of his contemporaries thought that his Epistles reflected the style and spirit of antiquity,--Beccadelli
of Bologna, for example, who says, writing to Bracciolini: "Your Epistles, which, in my opinion,
reflect the very spirit of the ancients, and, especially, the antique style of Roman expression":--"Epistolae
tuae, quae veterum sane, et antiquum illum eloquentiae Romanae morem, prae ceteris, mea sententia
exprimunt" (at the end of Lusus ad Vencrem, p. 47). The style is simpler, more unambitious,
and more flowing and smooth than is usually found in the Annals; but, (as in the descriptive
passages in that work), free play is given to the fancy which works unclogged by verboseness;
and judgment marks the circumstances in a description which progresses, apparently without
art, to the close of the beautiful climax, and strongly moves the compassion of the reader:--"When
he persisted with increased contumacy in his errors, he was condemned of heresy by the Council,
and sentenced to be burnt alive. With an unruffled brow and cheerful countenance he went to
his end; he was unawed by fire, or any kind of torture, or death. Never did any Stoic suffer
death with a soul of so much fortitude and courage, as he seemed to meet it. When he came to
the place of death, he stripped himself of his clothes, then dropping on his bended knees clasped
the stake to which he was to be fastened: he was first bound naked to the stake with wet ropes,
and then with a chain, after which not small, but large logs of wood with sticks thrown in
among them were piled around him up to his breast; then when they were being set on fire he
began to sing a sort of hymn, which the smoke and the flames hardly put a stop to. This was
the greatest mark of his soul of fortitude: when the executioner wanted to light the fire behind
his back, so that he should not see it, he called out, 'Come here, and set fire to it before
my eyes; for if I had been afraid of it, I never should have come to this place, which it was
in my power to have avoided.' Thus did this man, perish, who was excellent in everything but
faith. I saw the end of him; I watched every scene of it. Whether he acted from conviction
or contumacy, you would have pronounced his the death of a man who belonged to the school of
philosophy. I have laid before you a long narrative for the sake of occupation; having nothing
to do I wanted to do something, and give an account of things very different, indeed, from
the stories of the ancients; for the famous Mutius did not suffer his arm to be burnt with
a soul so bold, as this man his whole body; nor Socrates drink poison half so willingly as
he endured burning."

I shall now place the passage before the reader in the Latin, as it was written by Bracciolini,
with some words in Italics, upon which I shall afterwards comment:--

"Cum pertinacius in erroribus perseveraret, per Concilium haeresis damnatus est, et igni combustus.
Jucunda fronte et alacri vultu ad exitum suum accessit, non ignem expavit, non tormenti genus,
non mortis. Nullus unquam Stoicorum fuit tam constanti animo, tam forti mortem perpessus, quam
iste oppetiisse videtur. Cum venisset ad locum mortis, se ipsum exuit vestimentis, tum procumbens,
flexis genibus, veneratus est palum, ad quem ligatus fuit: primum funibus manentibus, tum catena
undus ad palum constrictus fuit; ligna deinde circumposita pectore tenus non minuscula, sed
grossa palaeis interjectis, tum flamma adhibita canere coepit hymnum quendam, quem fumus et
ignis vix interrupit. Hoc maximum constantis animi signum: cum lector ignem post tergum, ne
id videret, injicere vellet: --'huc,' inquit, 'accede, atque in conspectu accende ignem; si
enim illum timuissem, nunquam ad hunc locum quem effugiendi facultus erat, accessissem.' Hoc
modo vir, praeter fidem, egregius, consumptus est. Vidi hunc exitum, singulos actus inspexi.
Sive perfidia, sive pertinacia id egerit, certe philosophiae schola interitum viri descripsisses.
Longam tibi cantilenam narravi ocii causa, nihil agens aliquid agere volui, et res tibi narrare
paulum similes histories priscorum. Nam neque Mutius ille tam fidenti animo passus est membrum
uri, quam iste universum corpus; neque Socrates tam sponte venenum bibit, quam iste ignem suscepit."
[Endnote 145]

It will be seen, as a peculiarity in composition, that, in this not very long sentence, several
words are re-introduced, and sometimes over and over again, when the repetition could have
been avoided, as: "accedere," "agere," "videre," "narrare," "pertinacia," "constans," "animus,"
"mors," "exitus," "ignis," "vir," "locus," "palus," "cum," "tum," "tam," &c. As this runs through
the whole of Bracciolini's compositions with much frequency, it is to be expected that it would
be found to some extent in the Annals; because a man who so writes, writes thus unconsciously
and unavoidably, and even when engaged in a forgery, striving to imitate the style and manner
of another, he could not escape from so marked and distinctive a mannerism. Bracciolini, accordingly,
is found adhering in the Annals to this uniformity of manner: many passages more forcibly illustrative
of this peculiarity might be quoted; but I select the sham sea-fight in the XIIth book, for
two reasons, because it is pretty much of the same length as the burning of Jerome of Prague,
and because it is of a similar nature,--descriptive:--

"Sub idem tempus, inter lacum Fucinum amnemque Lirin perrupto monte, quo magnificentia operis
a pluribus viseretur, lacu in ipso navale proelium adornatur; ut quondam Augustus, structo
cis Tiberim stagno, sed levibus navigiis et minore copia ediderat. Claudius triremes quadriremesque
et undeviginti hominum millia armavit, cincto ratibus ambitu, ne vaga effugia forent; ac tamen
spatium amplexus, ad vim remigii, gubernantium artes, impetus navium, et proelio solita. In
ratibus praetoriarum cohortium manipuli turmaeque adstiterant, antepositis propugnaculis, ex
quis catapultae ballistaeque tenderentur: reliqua lacus classiarii tectis navibus obtinebant.
Ripas et colles, ac montium edita, in modum theatri multitudo innumera complevit proximis e
municipiis, et alii urbe ex ipsa, visendi cupidine aut officio in principem. Ipse insigni paludamento,
neque procul Agrippina chlamyde aurata, praesedere. Pugnatum, quamquam inter sontes, fortium
virorum animo; ac, post multum vulnerum, occidioni exempti sunt. Sed perfecto spectaculo apertum
aquarum iter. Incuria operis manifesta fuit, haud satis depressi ad lacus ima vel media. Eoque,
tempore interjecto, altius effossi specus, et contrahendae rursus multitudini gladiatorum spectaculum
editur, inditis pontibus pedestrem ad pugnam. Quin et convivium effluvio lacus adpositum, magna
formidine cunctos adfecit; quia vis aquarum prorumpens proxima trahebat, convulsis ulterioribus,
aut fragore et sonitu exterritis. Simul Agrippina, trepidatione principis usa, ministrum operis
Narcissum incusat Cupidinis ac praedarum. Nec ille reticet, impotentiam muliebrem nimiasque
spes ejus arguens." (An. XII. 56-7).

In this passage it will be observed that the same thing takes place in the repetition of words:--"lacus,"
"ratis," "vis," "navis," "ac," "multitudo," "Cupido," "princeps," "tempus," "spectaculum,"
"edere," "proelium," "visere," "proximus," "aqua," "opus" and "pugna." The conjunctive particle
"ac," is more particularly to be noted as an out of the way word for the ordinary copulative
"et": "ac tamen spatium amplexus"; "ac montium edita"; "ac post multum vulnerum," occurring
so frequently in such a brief sentence is just like the monotony of composition in the extract
from Bracciolini with respect to "cum": "cum pertinacius in erroribus perseveraret"; "cum venisset
ad locum mortis"; "cum lictor ignem post tergum," &c.

But this is not all as to the resemblance which the passage from Bracciolini bears to the writing
in the Annals. The expression "quam iste oppetiise," i.e. mortem, "videtur," has its exact
counterpart in the Second Book of the Annals in the phrase: "vix cohibuere amici, quo minus
eodem mari oppeteret," i.e. mortem (II. 24). When, too, Bracciolini says of Jerome of Prague,
"se ipsum exuit vestimentis," "strips himself of his clothes," instead of simply, "takes off
his clothes,"--"exuit vestimenta,"-- we have an expression precisely like that in the Annals,
"neutrum datis a se praemiis exuit," that is, "strips neither of the rewards which he had given
him" (XIV. 55), instead of "takes away the rewards,"--"praemia exuit."

But I will go by-and-bye more fully into matters of this kind. At present it is necessary that
I should still pursue the career of Bracciolini,--or rather so much of it as is absolutely
needed, in order that the reader may see how curiously it prepared and formed him to be the
author of such a peculiar work as the Annals, which in its characteristic singularity, could
have proceeded from him only, and by no manner of means from Tacitus.

I. In the autumn of 1418, after the breaking up of the Council of Constance, Bracciolini left
Italy and accompanied to England a member of the Plantagenet family, the second son of John
of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, Henry Beaufort, whose placid and beardless face the great Florentine
seems to have first seen at the Ecumenical Council which that princely prelate had turned aside
to visit in the course of a pilgrimage he was making to Jerusalem. Henry Beaufort was then
Bishop of Winchester, but afterwards a Cardinal, and though there was another Prince of the
Roman Church, Kemp, Archbishop of York and subsequently of Canterbury, Beaufort was always
styled by the popular voice and in public acts "The Cardinal of England," on account, perhaps,
of his Royal parentage and large wealth, more enormous than had been known since the days of
the De Spencers: he had lands in manors, farms, chaces, parks and warrens in seven counties,
Berkshire, Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire, Wiltshire, Somersetshire, Hampshire and Surrey, besides
having the Customs of England mortgaged to him, and the cocket of the Port of Southampton with
its dependencies,--an indebtedness of the State which is so far interesting as being the foundation
of our National Debt.

Bracciolini had now an opportunity of watching and unravelling the wiles of this august prelate
and patron of his; he thus gained still more insight into the ways of the worldly and the feelings
of the ambitious; acquired a masterly knowledge of the dark passions and became versed in the
crooked policy of court intrigue. He had quitted provinces at home laid waste by hostile invasions
and cities agitated by the discord of contending parties; Genoa sending warships to ravage
in the Mediterranean, Venice reducing to subjection the smaller States along the Adriatic,
and Florence warring with Pisa, still to fix his eyes on darkness and the degradation of humanity;
for he was visiting a country,--as England was in the fifteenth century,--buried in the gloom
of barbarism, and forlorn in its literary condition, with writers, unworthy the name of scholars,
Walsingham and Whethamstede, Otterbourne and Elmham, inditing bald chronicles; students applying
their minds to scholastic philosophy; divines confounding their wits with theological mysteries;
and men with inclinations to science, as Thomas Northfield, losing themselves in witchcraft,
divination and the barbarous jargon of astrology, while rendering themselves, at any moment,
liable to be apprehended by order of the doctors and notaries who formed the Board of Commissioners
for the discovery of magicians, enchanters and sorcerers; for it was the age when invention
framed the lie of the day, the marvellous military leadership of Joan of Arc, and credulity
stood as ready to receive it as little boys in nurseries the wondrous tale of Jack and the
Beanstalk. Through this mist the figure of Cardinal Beaufort loomed largest, unsociable, disdainful,
avaricious, immeasurably high-stomached (for he deemed himself on an equality with the king);
and, in spite of immoderate riches, inordinately mean: along with these unamiable qualities,
he upheld the policy of Martin V., which was to destroy the independence of the National Church
of England: he was treacherous to his associates, and murderous thoughts were not strangers
to his bosom.

Bishop Milner, in his History of Winchester under the Plantagenets (Vol. I. p. 301), denies
that there is solid ground in history for representing Beaufort as depraved, and condemns Shakespeare
for having endowed Humphry, Duke of Gloucester, with merit of which he deprived the memory
of Cardinal Beaufort. The late Dean Hook, too, in his elegantly written life of Archbishop
Chicheley (p. 97) is of opinion that Beaufort "has appeared in history with his character drawn
in darker colours than it deserves."

It could have been with no gentle eye that Bracciolini looked on Cardinal Beaufort, whose "bad
death," as Shakespeare makes the Earl of Warwick observe, "argued a monstrous life."

Repeatedly in letters to his friend Niccoli, during two years and more of anxiety and discontent
passed by him from 1420 to 1422 in the Palace of the Prince Prelate, Bracciolini complained
bitterly of the magnificent promises not being fulfilled that the Cardinal had held forth to
him on condition of his accompanying him to England.

And, really, Bracciolini may be said to have been "undone"; for when he got what he had bargained
to purchase, the frivolous goodwill of his master, it was, as he expressed it, "the birth of
the mouse after the labour of the mountain": he obtained a benefice of 120 florins a year,
with what he did not anticipate would be attached to it,--hard work.

In order to have a precise and not a vague and confused idea of the galling effect produced
on his feelings by this offer, it is necessary to turn to two paragraphs (37, 38), in the Second
Book of the Annals;--for I cannot divest myself of the suspicion that this incident in his
life is there indirectly referred to, where an account is given that has no historical basis
of the "nobilis juvenis, in paupertate manifesta," Marcus Hortalus, whose noble parentage and
straightened circumstances closely corresponded to the birth and means of Bracciolini. When
seeking recompense from Tiberius for his four sons, he calls on the Emperor to behold in them
"the scions and offspring of what a multitude of consuls! what a multitude of dictators! which
he says not to mortify, but to excite commiseration."--"En! stirps et progenies tot consulum!
tot dictatorum! nec ad invidiam ista, sed conciliandae misericordiae refero;" commenting on
which Justus Lipsius bursts into the angry exclamation: "What a braggart, lying speech on this
man's part! For where was this multitude of consuls, this multitude of dictators? Why, I can
find only one dictator and one consul in the Hortensian family; the dictator in the year of
Rome, 467, when the Commons revolted; and the Consul, Quintus Hortensius, the grandfather of
the speaker,--who, perhaps, however, reckoned in the ancestors also in his mother's line":
--"Vaniloqua hominis oratio et falsa! Ubi enim isti tot consules, tot dictatores? Certe ego
in Hortensia gente unum, dictatorem reperio, et Consulem unum; dictatorem anno urbis 467 secessione
plebis; consulem, Q. Hortensium hujus avum. Sed intellegit fortasse majores suos etiam ex gente
materna."

Lipsius would have spared himself the trouble of inditing this indignant note and throwing
out this useless suggestion had he known that Bracciolini forged the Annals, and playfully
interspersed his fabrication occasionally with fanciful characters and fictitious events. The
picture of Marcus Hortalus, who had received from Augustus the munificent gift of a million
sesterces, being in the days of Tiberius once more poor, married, with children, and seeking
aid from the State for his four sons, seems to be all purely imaginary, introduced merely as
a photograph from life, the feelings and conduct of Hortalus, after the treatment of his sons
by Tiberius, being such a faithful reflex, as far as can be judged from his own confessions,
of the feelings and conduct of Bracciolini himself after the way in which his hopes of preferment
were blasted by Cardinal Beaufort. Just as Hortalus, if he had been left to himself, would
have remained a bachelor, and only from pressure on the part of Augustus, became a husband,
and, while incapable of supporting children, a father, so Bracciolini would have remained in
Italy and never visited this country, had it not been for the importunities of the Cardinal,
and never turned his thoughts to preferment in the Church, which he is invariably telling us
he disliked, had not Beaufort given assurance that he would put him in the way of holding some
high and lucrative post in England; and then when he received a paltry benefice, instead of
expressing thanks like the other dependents on the Prince Prelate, he was silent, from fear
of the power possessed by Beaufort, or from retaining even in his contracted fortunes the politeness
which he had inherited from his noble forefathers:--"egere alii grates; siluit Hortalus, pavore,
an avitae nobilitatis, etiam inter angustias fortunae, retinens" (An. II. 38).

II. We are indebted to Bracciolini's stay among us for one or two matters that are interesting
about our country. His two years' residence here filled him with a marked admiration of London
as well as with the most confused ideas of the antiquity and greatness of its commerce; and
though comments have already been made on his description of it as eminently absurd, the passage
is too curious not to be examined again; the more so as it has misled good historians of London,
who believing that the account actually proceeded from Tacitus, have taken it to be incontrovertibly
true, whereas it is only true, if it be applied, as it is applicable only to the advanced state
of society and the large commercial town of which Bracciolini was the eye witness towards the
close of the reign of Henry V., and the commencement of that of his infant son and successor.
The slightest investigation will carry conviction of this.

A hundred years before the birth of Tacitus, Britain was so monstrously barbarous and obscure,
that Julius Caesar, when wanting to invade it and wishing for information of its state and
circumstances, could not gain that knowledge, because, as he tells us, "scarcely anybody but
merchants visited Britain in those times, and no part of it, except the seacoast and the provinces
opposite Gaul": ("neque enim temere praeter mercatores illo adiit quisquam, neque iis ipsis
quidquam, praeter oram maritimam, atque eas regiones, quae sunt contra Gallias." (Caesar De
Bell. Gall. IV. 20). From this we see that, in the middle of the century before the Christian
era, the only trade with Britain was then confined to the shores, and the southern parts, from
Kent to Cornwall: it is then, against every probability that, in a period extending over no
more than about a hundred years, this trade should have extended up the navigable rivers and
have reached London enough for it to have risen up, by the year 60 of our era, into an immense
emporium and be known all over the world for its enormous commerce. That this was not the case
we know from Strabo, who lived in the time of Augustus, and who, though saying a great deal
about our island and its trade, has not a word about London, howbeit that the author of the
Annals does record in his work that it was exceedingly famous for the number of the merchants
who frequented it and the extent of its commerce; but it is not likely that it was so, if the
whole island did no more trade than Strabo informs us, the articles exported from all Britain
being insignificant and few;--corn and cattle; such metals as gold, silver, tin, lead and iron;
slaves and hunting dogs (Strabo III. 2. 9.--ib. 5. 11.--IV. 5. 2), which Oppian says were beagles.
Musgrave, in his Belgicum Britannicum adds "cheese," from some wretched authority, for Strabo
says that the natives at that time were as ignorant of the art of making cheese, as of gardening
and every kind of husbandry:--[Greek: "Mae turopoiein dia taen apeirian, apeirous d'einai kai
kaepeias kai allon georgikon."] (IV. 5. 2).

The statement, then, that London had the very greatest reputation for the number of its merchants
and commodities of trade in Nero's time is utterly unfounded--nothing more nor less than outrageously
absurd; the picture, however, is quite true if London be considered at the time when Bracciolini
was here. Its merchants then carried on a considerable trade with a number of foreign countries,
to an extent far greater, and protected by commercial treaties much more numerous than previous
to investigation I could have been led to suppose. The foreign merchants who principally came
to the Port of London were those of Majorca, Sicily, and the other islands in the Mediterranean;
the western parts of Morocco; Venice, Genoa, Florence and the other cities of Italy; Spain
and Portugal; the subjects of the Duke of Brabant, Lorraine and Luxemburgh; of the Duke of
Brittany, and of the Duke of Holland, Zealand, Hanneau and Friesland; the traders of the great
manufacturing towns of Flanders; of the Hanse Towns of Germany, 64 in number, situated on the
shores of the Baltic, the banks of the Rhine, and the other navigable rivers of Germany; the
people of the great seaport towns of Prussia and Livonia, then subject to the Grand Master
of the Teutonic Order of Knights, along with the traders of Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Iceland.

In addition to these bringing their goods here in their own bottoms, a great number of other
foreign merchants were established in London for managing the trade of their respective States
and Cities, performing, in fact, the duties now attached to the office of Consul, first instituted
by the maligned but enlightened Richard III. These foreign merchants being as powerful as they
were numerous, formed themselves into Companies: independently of the German merchants of the
Steel Yard, there were the Companies of the Lombards; the Caursini of Rome; the Peruchi, Scaldi,
Friscobaldi and Bardi of Florence, and the Ballardi and Reisardi of Lucca. The Government protected
them, and, as they were viewed with intense jealousy by the native traders, they were judged,
in all disputes, not by the common law, but the merchant law, which was administered by the
Mayor and Constables; and of the mediators in these disputes, two only were native, four being
foreigners, two Germans and two Italians.

The Londoners had made prodigious advances upon their forefathers in the commodities of merchandize
in which they dealt. Their most valuable articles of exportation were wool and woollen clothes
in great varieties and great quantity; corn; metals, particularly lead and tin; herrings from
Yarmouth and Norfolk; salmon, salt, cheese, honey, wax, tallow, and several articles of smaller
value. But their great trade was in foreign imports and that was entirely in the hands of foreign
merchants who came here in shoals, bringing with them their gold and silver, in coin and bullion;
different kinds of wines from the finest provinces in the south of France, and from Spain and
Portugal; also from the two last countries (to enter into a nomenclature that's like the catalogue
of an auctioneer for monotony of names and unconnectedness of things), figs, raisins, dates,
oils, soap, wax, wool, liquorice, iron, wadmote, goat-fell, red-fell, saffron and quicksilver;
wine, salt, linen and canvas from Brittany; corn, hemp, flax, tar, pitch, wax, osmond, iron,
steel, copper, pelfry, thread, fustian, buckram, canvas, boards, bow-staves and wool-cards
from Germany and Prussia; coffee, silk, oil, woad, black pepper, rock alum, gold and cloth
of gold from Genoa; spices of all kinds, sweet wines and grocery wares, sugar and drugs, from
Venice, Florence and the other Italian States; gold and other precious stones from Egypt and
Arabia; oil of palm from the countries about Babylon; frankincense from Arabia; spiceries,
drugs, aromatics of various kinds, silks and other fine fabrics from Turkey, India and other
Oriental lands; silks from the manufactories established in Sicily, Spain, Majorca and Ivica;
linen and woollen cloths of the finest texture and the most delicate colours from the looms
of Flanders for the use of persons of high rank; the tapestries of Arras; and furs of various
kinds and in great quantities from Russia, Norway and other northern countries. The native
merchants of London, the Anglo-Saxons and Anglo-Normans, carried on an enormous inland trade.
They supplied all parts of the kingdom with corn from the many granaries which filled the City
of London. There was a constant buying and selling of live horned cattle and sheep. Trade was
great among goldsmiths, jewellers, gilders, embroiderers, illuminators and painters; and makers
of all kinds of commodities sent their goods from every part of the provinces, knowing that
they were wanted and would meet with immediate purchasers.

If those were the days when Florence had its Cosmo de' Medici, who spent millions of florins
in building palaces, churches and charitable foundations to beautify his native town; and when
Bourges had its Jean Coeur who was rich enough to furnish Lewis VII. with sufficient gold crowns
to support the armies with which that monarch recovered his possessions from the English, London,
too, had its Hende, Whittington and Norbury affluent and magnificent enough to lend their sovereign
immense sums of money, and adorn the city in which they had amassed their stupendous fortunes
with useful and ornamental buildings--Bridewells, Colleges, Hospitals, Guildhalls and Public
Libraries. Well might Bracciolini, without the slightest particle of exaggeration, say of London,
as he saw it, that it was "COPIA negotiatorum et commeatuum MAXIME CELEBRE" (An. XIV. 33).

In leaving this passage I cannot help remarking that the expression, "copia negotiatorum et
commeatuum," has a turn that is frequently found in the Annals; it is a cast of phrase not
affected by Tacitus; but it is exactly the manner of arranging words in a sentence to which
Sallust is partial: "frequentiam negotiatorum et commeatuum," he says in his "Jugurtha" (47);
it is obvious that in this passage Sallust means by "commeatuus," "supplies of corn and provisions,"
as it is equally obvious that Bracciolini (though following the phraseology of his favourite
Latin author,) gives it, in the sentence quoted from the Fourteenth Book of the Annals, a wider
meaning, "commodities of merchandize."

III. If Bracciolini erred with respect to London, in magnifying it into a town of superlative
commercial splendour in the days of Nero, which, I repeat, is wildly ridiculous, he more grossly
erred with respect to our form of government; for when he decried it, and prophesied its decadence
and downfall, his sagacity and judgment were impugned.

When he was here our country was in the infancy of its example as a land ruled by the most
admirable political arrangements. It can readily be believed with what interest and surprise
the proud Italian, who had seen nothing of the kind in his own land of high civilization, must
have witnessed our parliaments regularly meeting, as had been the case for generations, since
the reign of Edward I. in 1293, knights and burgesses popularly elected by the inhabitants
of the counties and boroughs sitting in council with the king, surrounded by his barons and
bishops, priors who were peers and abbots who had mitres. With an outspoken contempt of England,
and an overweening admiration of Italy, he avails himself of an opportunity of sneering covertly
at our harmonious combination of the three forms of government, the monarchy, the oligarchy
and the republic. (IV. 33). Now the phrase, "delecta ex his," selected from these, that is,
the monarchy, the oligarchy and the republic, and meaning that the selections were of all the
excellences and none of the faults of each, is in every way applicable to only one form of
government,-- our Parliamentary government, which is at once legislative and executive, and,
as it is now, it almost was in the days when Bracciolini was on a visit to us in the opening
days of the infant king, Henry VI. Then not only was the "populus," or "commonalty," represented
by knights, citizens and burgesses of their own choosing; but the "primores," or "aristocracy,"
had their representatives also in the larger barons, bishops, priors who were peers and mitred
abbots; priors who were not peers, and abbots who had not mitres, as well as many of the smaller
barons, not receiving writs of summons: the king himself, being an infant at the breast, had
his representative, the "selection" being from his own family, in the person of his uncle Humphry,
Duke of Gloucester, who was his substitute in the Parliament as the Protector or Regent; and
even when the king was an adult, and absent in wars, as Edward I. when engaged in the conquest
of Wales, he was represented in Parliament by Commissioners, as our sovereign is to this day.

But Bracciolini not only said that the selections were from the monarchic, aristocratic and
popular elements, but that they were "associated" or "conjoined"--"consociata." Here all the
editors of Tacitus by their silence or otherwise fairly admit that the passage is utterly beyond
their comprehension,--"one of those things," in fact, "which," in the words of Lord Dundreary,
"no fellow is supposed to understand." As for the word, "consociata," James Gronovius was of
opinion that Tacitus must have written "concinnata"; but not having the boldness, after the
fashion of Justus Lipsius of making alterations, according to his own sweet pleasure, without
the authority of manuscript or edition, he followed Beroaldi, who, as much puzzled as any of
the subsequent editors, had substituted "constituta" for the nonsensical word in the blundering
MS. "consciata," though common sense should have told him that "consociata" was meant, it being
evident that the transcriber, infinitely more puzzled than the editors, for he could not have
had the remotest conception of what he was doing, had merely omitted a vowel in his usual careless
way. It was not till Ernesti's time, 1772, that the proper word was restored. Ernesti, too,
fancied that he had discovered something in the Roman government, according to the description
by Polybius, which justified the language in the Annals. "I have no doubt," he says, "but that
Tacitus had in his mind (along with other historians) Polybius, who, in the 9th and following
chapters of the 6th book of his History, praises the Roman Republic for combining the excellences
of all the three forms of government, while avoiding the faults of each, and he speaks of that
system of government as being alone perfect which is compounded of these three." "Neque dubito,
Tacitum in animo habuisse cum alios historicos, tum Polybium qui 6. 9 sqq. rempublicam romanam
laudat hoc nomine, quod omnium illarum trium formarum commoda complexa sit, vitatis singularum
vitiis, eamque solam rempublicam perfectam esse dicit, quae sit e tribus istis temperata."

Let us then see exactly what it is that Polybius does say. After speaking of a balance between
the three forms of government in the Roman administration being so fine that it was no easy
matter to decide whether the government was aristocratic, democratic or monarchical (VI. 11),
he proceeds to point out the several powers appropriated to each branch of the constitution;--the
apparently regal rule of the Consuls, the aristocratic authority of the Senate, and the share
taken by the people in the administration of affairs (ibid. 12, 13, 14). This done, his endeavour
is to show not that there was any "selection and conjunction" as stated in the Annals, of the
several forms, but quite on the contrary, "counteraction and co-operation": to this he devotes
an entire chapter, with these remarks by way of preface:--"With respect, then, to the several
parts into which the government is divided, the nature of every one of them has been shown;
and it now remains to be pointed out how each of these forms is enabled to COUNTERACT the others,
and how, on the other hand, it can CO-OPERATE with them:--[Greek: "Tina men oun tropon diaergaetai
ta taes politeias eis ekaston eidos, eirgaetai tina de tropon ANTIPRATTEIN boulaethenta, kai
SYNERGEIN allaelois palin hekasta ton mergan dunatai, nun phaethaesetai."] (VI. 15.)

After this, it cannot be supposed that reference is made to the Commonwealth of Rome. Still
less so, when, in the very next sentence the author of the Annals attempts to show that an
equally blended administration cannot endure, because of the example afforded by Rome (proving
how well he knew that the Romans had mixed together in their government the elements of the
three forms); he says, that when the Plebeians had the principal power, there was submission
to the will of the populace; when the Patricians held the sway, the wishes of the aristocratic
section of the community were consulted; and when Rome had her emperors, the people fared no
better than during the reign of the kings: here are his words:--"Therefore as in the olden
time" (during the Republic), "when the plebeians were paramount, or when the patricians were
superior in power," (in the first instance) "the whim of the populace was ascertained and the
way in which their humour was to be dealt with, and" (in the second instance) "those persons
were accounted astute in their generation and wise who made themselves thoroughly conversant
with the disposition of the Senate and the aristocracy; then when a change took place in the
Government" (from the Republic to the Empire), "there was the same state of things as when
a King was the ruler":--"Igitur, ut olim, plebe valida, vel cum patres pollerent, noscenda
vulgi natura et quibus modis temperanter haberetur, senatusque et optimatium ingenia qui maxime
perdidicerant, callidi temporum et sapientes credebantur; sic, converso statu, neque alia rerum
quam si unus imperitet." (l.c.)

What he is striving in his usual dark way to establish is this:-- Here was the failure of the
Roman form of administration; the Romans were the most accomplished people in the art of government;
the English, who are semi-barbarous, can know nothing about government; it is then idle on
their part to imagine that they are endowed with such a vast amount of political knowledge
as to be qualified by their own reflections alone to build up a new and magnificent form of
government; when, too, that form of government is essentially different from our superb oligarchies
in Italy, the most civilized and cultivated part of the world in everything, especially politics;
the English style of government is, also, strictly based on the old Roman mode of administration,
and when that failed, how can any sensible man deem that the English method of administration
will ever work successfully. Hence his remarks: "raking up and relating this," (namely, how
the Roman government never worked well at any time,) "will be of benefit," (to whom? forsooth,
the English,) "because few" (in matters of statesmanship), "by their own sagacity distinguish
the good from the very bad, the practicable from the pernicious; the many gain their wisdom
from the acts of others; yet as examples bring benefit so do they meet least with a probation."
If that be not the meaning of his words, then they must remain, as in all translations, without
meaning. Yet the Latin, crabbed as it is, (and it is always crabbed in the Annals), seems to
me to be simple enough:--"haec conquiri tradique in rem fuerit; quia pauci prudentia honesta
ab deterioribus, utilia ab noxiis, discernunt; plures aliorum eventis docentur; ceterum ut
profutura ita minimum oblectationis adferunt" (l.c.).

That he does not mean the Roman form of government is further seen by his remark that the kind
of administration spoken of is "easier to be commended than realized"--"laudari facilius, quam
evenire"; just as it is easy to see from his language that he has before him an instance of
some government framed like that which he says will not exist for any length of time; for whenever
he employs the hypothetical particle, "si" about anything that is absolute and beyond doubt,
he always uses it with the indicative and not the conditional. As he then writes, "si evenit,"
(not "si eveniat"), "if it is realized," (not "if it be realized,") he really has in his mind
some State constituted according to his description.

It should now be borne in mind that he was in this country before he forged the Annals, and
was in the household of Cardinal Beaufort, who had repeatedly filled the office of Chancellor,
on whom devolved the duty of issuing the writs to the members of the Parliament, Commoners
as well as Peers; for that great officer the Speaker, was not yet invested with the authority
so to do with respect to the Lower House; not only, then, had Bracciolini heard of the English
Parliament, but the precise nature of it must have come frequently under his cognizance. In
fact, it was no other than the English Parliament to which he refers.

That being accepted, there were several reasons to induce him to doubt the durability of our
Parliament: the Crown possessed too great power in those assemblies: it was with difficulty
that the great barons could be got to attend, their delight being to reside at their castles
in the country, and take no part in political affairs; it was also difficult to get the representatives
of the counties and boroughs to attend, on account of the long distances that many had to come,
and the great expenses of their attendance; sometimes in a county the properly qualified person,--an
actual knight,--could not be found, and there was no representative from a county, until upwards
of twenty years after Bracciolini had left us, when esquires and gentlemen could be returned;
sometimes a city or borough would not send a member, either by pleading poverty in not being
able to pay the wages of the two representatives, or from not finding among their townsmen
two burgesses with the qualifications required by the writ, that is, sufficiently hale to bear
the fatigue of the journey, and sufficiently sensible to discharge the duties of close attendance
on Parliament; for every member was then required to be present at the Parliament; hence each
small freeholder from a county and each burgess had to find three or four persons of credit
to be sureties for him that he would attend; and the constituents of each were forced to bear
the cost of his attendance.

In addition to these difficulties there were other drawbacks that seemed to threaten a speedy
termination to these Parliaments. The session was very short; the business was prepared beforehand,
the laws being drawn up by the bishops, earls, barons, justices, and others who formed the
king's council; and several statutes and laws were thus hastily and ill considered.

In spite of all these excuses for Bracciolini, experience has proved that his observation was
shallow; and it is possible that, with his profound insight into the human mind, he might not
have made it had he gone deeply into English character; but it seems that he deemed it unworthy
of his study, England being "a country, which," as he says, "he did not like at all,"--"hujus
patriae, quam parum diligo" (Ep. I. 2). With such an aversion to us it is no wonder that he
had no faith in the continuance of our Parliament, for no stronger reason, probably, than that
it was an English institution; but had he foreseen its durability he would have been a greater
wonder than he was from having his eyes more fully opened than were the eyes of any man at
that period to the rare qualities possessed by Englishmen; their unpretending magnanimity;
their fine talents for business; their keen views in policy; the great things they had done
in the arts of peace and war, as well as their capability of continuing to accomplish still
greater achievements in both; the solidity of their understandings and their reflective spirits,
which, when directed and applied to political schemes, devise and consummate sound and lasting
reforms of the State.

I. About this period Bracciolini commenced the forgery of the Annals. In noticing the preliminary
steps to that fabrication, and then glancing back at a few circumstances peculiar to his age,
while touching upon some incidents hitherto passed over in his biography, we shall have all
the necessary lights and shades in his life that will be of use to us in the maintenance and
illustration of our theory.

Although he received in exchange for the living of 120 florins a year another of the annual
worth of L40 with slighter duties attached to it, he still continued to express dissatisfaction
at his fortunes, and desire a sinecure canonry in England that would enable him to live in
literary ease at home. When, however, an alternative was presented to him of returning to the
Pontifical Secretariate, through the intercession of one of his powerful Italian friends, Cardinal
Adimari, Archbishop of Pisa, he rudely scouted the overture upon these grounds: that he would
"rather be a free man than a public slave"; that he had "a smaller opinion of the Papacy and
its limbs than the world believed"; that "if he had thought as highly of the Secretaryship
to the Pope, as many did, he would long before have gone back to it; and that if he lost everything,
from what he now had, he would not want."--"Video quae Cardinalis Pisanus scribit de Secretariatu.
Sane si ego illud officium tantum existimarem, quantum nonnulli, ego jamdudum istuc rediissem:
sed si omnia deficerent, hoc quod nunc habeo, non deerit mihi. Ego minus existimo et Pontificatum
et ejus membra quam credunt. Cupio enim liber esse, non publicus servus" (Ep. I. 17).

Just as he was in this bad humour, disgusted with his patron and the world, and in the most
cynical of moods, a proposal reached him from Florence, which, as set forth to view by himself
in communications to his friend Niccoli, is so dimly disclosed as to be capable of two interpretations:
The Rev. William Shepherd in his Life of him understands his ambiguous terms as having reference
to a professorship, the words of Mr. Shepherd being:

--"Piero Lamberteschi ... offered him a situation, the nature of which is not precisely known,
but which was probably that of public professor in one of the Italian Universities" (Life of
Poggio Bracciolini, p. 138). Now I conceive, and shall attempt to prove that the proposal was
not about a "situation," but to forge additional books to the hopelessly lost History of Tacitus.

Niccolo Niccoli seems to have been at the bottom of the business; at any rate, he appears to
have advised his bosom friend to undertake the task; for Bracciolini says that he "thinks he
will follow his advice, while writing to him from the London Palace of Cardinal Beaufort, in
a letter dated the 22nd of February, 1422, respecting "a suggestion" and "an offer" made by
his fellow- countryman, Piero Lamberteschi, who, he says, "will endeavour to procure for me
in three years 500 gold sequins. If he will make it 600, I will at once close with his proposal.
He holds forth sanguine hopes about several future profitable contingencies, which, I am inclined
to believe, may probably be realized; yet it is more prudent to covenant for something certain
than to depend on hope alone." "Placent mihi quae Pierus imaginatur, quaeque offert; et ego,
ut puto, sequar consilium vestrum. Scribit mihi se daturum operam, ut habeam triennio quingentos
aureos: fient sexcenti, et acquiescam. Proponit spem magnam plurium rerum, quam licet existimem
futuram veram, tamen aliquid certum pacisci satius est, quam ex sola spe pendere" (Ep. I. 17).

Speaking further on in the letter about Lamberteschi, he says: "I like the occupation to which
he has invited me, and hope I shall be able to produce something WORTH READING; but for this
purpose, as I tell him in my letters, I require the retirement and leisure that are necessary
for literary work." "Placet mihi occupatio, ad quam me hortatur, et spero me nonnihil effecturum
DIGNUM LECTIONE; sed, ut ad eum scribo, ad haec est opus quiete et otio literarum."

II. The expression of his hope that he would "produce something worth reading," and the mention
of his want, in order that he should accomplish what was required of him, "retirement and leisure
for literary work," quite set at rest Mr. Shepherd's theory that the proposal had reference
to a Professorship. In the first place, professors in those days did not collect their lectures
and publish them for the behoof of those who had not the privilege of hearing them delivered.
They did not give their addresses an elaborate form, nor introduce into them the novel views
and profound and accurate thought with which Professors now dignify their vocation from chairs
in Universities, especially those of Oxford and Cambridge, or places of public instruction,
as the Royal Institution in Albemarle Street, with its Professor Tyndall, or the Royal School
of Mines and Museum of Practical Geology in Jermyn Street, with its Professor Huxley. They
could not then "produce something worth reading." In the second place they did not require
the "retirement and leisure necessary for literary work"; they talked about what they knew
in the most simple and artless manner; made no preparations beforehand; walked into a class
room, and, book in hand, Greek or Roman classic, discoursed to their pupils about the meaning
of this or that passage or the rendering of this or that word benefiting the juvenile class
with the spontaneous harvest of their cultivated minds, and giving the opinions of others a
great deal more freely than they gave their own: all that they said, too, was detached and
trite; and if books are valuable, as consisting of perfectly combined parts, and new or extraordinary
contents, the lectures of the fifteenth century professors would not have been worth the paper
on which they were written. Bracciolini, then, would never, in the contemplation of turning
a professor, have spoken of "producing something worth reading"; nor, for the discharge of
professorial duties, would he speak of requiring "retirement and leisure for literary work."
It is clear that Mr. Shepherd is altogether wrong in his conjecture.

And now as to mine. If the dim revelations concerned a plan about forging the Annals, then
"something worth reading" Bracciolini certainly did produce; for the Annals is,--taking the
circumstances under which it was composed into consideration-- about one of the most wonderful
literary creations that we have; on every page there is indication of the "labour limae,"--the
filing and polishing that are the result of the "retirement and leisure necessary to literary
work"; and, though not bearing a very striking resemblance to the History of Tacitus, of which
it is intended to be the supplement, it was, nevertheless, contrived with so much artfulness
that, for more than four hundred years, it has deceived the scholars of Europe: yes, indeed,
the author

    "Gave out such a seeming
    To seal their eyes up,--close as oak,--
    They thought 'twas Tacitus."

The more the passages in these interesting letters are considered, the stronger becomes the
impression that they are all about a scheme for forging the Annals of Tacitus. Even those which
seem to give a colouring to Mr. Shepherd's view in reality favour mine.

A part of the original scheme appears to have been that Bracciolini was to go to Hungary: what
for is not mentioned. It then becomes a matter of conjecture. Mine is, that, on account of
the belief current in those days that singular treasures of ancient history were to be found
more readily than elsewhere in barbarous countries, and that the more barbarous the country
the greater the chance of recovering an ancient classic, so Bracciolini was to go, or feign
that he had gone to Hungary, and then on returning give out that he had there found some of
the lost books of the History of Tacitus. If this be not the right conjecture, it can barely
be understood why Bracciolini should make a mystery about this visit. "If I undertake a journey
to Hungary," he says, "it will be unknown to everybody but a few, and down the throats of these
I shall cram all sorts of speeches, since I will pretend that I have come from here," that
is, from England. "Si in Hungariam proficiscar, erit ignotum omnibus, praeter paucos; quin
simulabo me huc venturum, et istos pascam verbis." (Ep. I. 18). This intention to keep the
journey to Hungary a secret looks as if his going there were connected with the wrong act suggested,
seeing that men usually resort to concealment when they commit a wrong act, and endeavour to
lead people astray with respect to it (as Bracciolini showed an inclination to do) by misstatements
and falsehoods: then Bracciolini knew well that the commission of a forgery would be immediately
suspected were it bruited abroad that he had come from Hungary where he had found a long-lost
classic because those were days when book-finders were in the habit of first forging works,
and then visiting far distant lands to report on their return that they had there recovered
MSS. which they themselves had written.

Another passage strengthens my view, though, at a first glance, it favours Mr. Shepherd's.
After observing that his friend "knew well how he preferred liberty and literary leisure to
the other things which the vast majority held in the highest estimation and made the objects
of their ambition," Bracciolini proceeds thus: "And if I were to see that I should get that
which our friend Picro expects, I would go not only to the end of Europe but as far as to the
wilds of Tartary, especially as I should have the opportunity of paying attention to Greek
literature, which it is my desire to devour with avidity, were it but to avoid those wretched
translations, which so torment me that there is more pain in reading than pleasure in acquiring
knowledge."--"Id primum scias volo, me libertatem et otium litterarum praeponere rebus caeteris,
quae plures existimant permaximi, atque optant. Sique videro id me consecuturum, prout sperat
Pierius noster, non solum ad Sarmatas, sed Scythas usque proficiscar, praesertim proposita
facultate dandi operam Graecis litteris, quas avide cupio haurire, ut fugiam istas molestas
translationes, quae ita me torquent, ut pluris sit molestiae in legendo, quam in discendo suavitatis."
(Ep. I. 18.)

This is the passage that must have particularly induced Mr. Shepherd to think that what was
offered to Bracciolini was a Professorship; and as Bracciolini spoke of the opportunity that
would be afforded to him of studying Greek literature, that the Professorship was of Greek.
But Mr. Shepherd ought not to have conjectured that the Professorship must have been in some
Italian University; it is clear that if Bracciolini was to carry out the proposal of Lamberteschi,
he was, from the original plan, to have gone to Hungary. The Professorship must, therefore,
have been in Hungary. But in 1422 no professor was wanted in that country, because it had no
university: Hungary then was, and remained a wilderness of unlettered barbarism for nearly
half a century after, it not being until 1465, half a dozen years from the death of Bracciolini,
that Matthias Corvinus established in Buda the first Hungarian University, filling it with
valuable works which he got copied from rare manuscripts in the principal cities of Italy,
especially Rome and Florence, and inviting to it men as learned as Bracciolini, not only from
Italy, but also France and Germany. What Bracciolini really alludes to is not a professorship,
but the money he was to get for his forgery,--the 500 or 600 gold sequins; and as money was
then worth about twenty times more than it is now, it was a moderate fortune of ten or twelve
thousand pounds; and when he should have such means at his disposal, he would have quite sufficient
for his purpose; he could then forsake the clerical duties which were so onerous and distasteful
to him, to devote himself in peace and comfort to his favourite study of Greek literature,
with which he became specially captivated just at this period of his life from reading for
the first time in the magnificent library of Cardinal Beaufort the works of the Greek fathers,
above all, Chrysostom, whom he looked upon as the greatest of all writers; for writing to Niccoli
from the London palace of Cardinal Beaufort in the summer of 1420, he speaks of "preferring
Chrysostom to everybody else whom he had ever read,"--"Joannes Chrysostomus, quem omnibus,
quos ego unquam legerim, praefero" (Ep. I. 7); and, on another occasion, in a letter to the
same friend, again referring to Chrysostom, he bursts into the enthusiastic exclamation: "this
man by a good shoulder, or more, overtops everybody":--"hic vir longe humero supereminet omnes"
(Ep. I. 8). A still greater, nay, "the greatest reason for his desire of returning to Greek
literature," he gives in a letter to Niccoli dated London, the 17th of July, 1420, that, in
"skimming over Aristotle during the spring of that year, not for the purpose of studying him
then, but reading and seeing what there was in each of his works,"--he had found that sort
of "perusal not wholly unprofitable, as he had learnt something every day, superficial though
it might be, from understanding Aristotle in his own language, when he found him in the words
of translators either incomprehensible or nonsensical." "Ego jam tribus mensibus vaco Aristoteli,
non tam discendi causa ad praesens, quam legendi, ac videndi, quid in quoque opere contineatur:
nec est tamen omnino inutilis haec lectio; disco aliquid in diem, saltem superficie tenus,
et haec est causa potissima, cur amor graecarum litterarum redierit, ut hunc virum quasi elinguem,
et absurdum aliena lingua, cognoscam sua."

III. As Bracciolini gave his assent to the fabrication of additional books to the History of
Tacitus, his friends Niccoli and Lamberteschi as well as himself were of opinion that his presence
was required in Italy, in order that the three should take counsel together, and, discussing
the matter in concert, deliberate fully what was best to be done: "nam maturius deliberare
poterimus, quid sit agendum," he says in a letter addressed to Niccoli from London on the 5th
of March, 1422; and as he left England for Italy in the summer, and did not begin his forgery
till the autumn of the next year, he spent the interval of some eighteen, nineteen or twenty
months in continually holding cabinet councils with his two friends, and secretly devising
with them on what plan he could best execute the addition to the History of Tacitus; no doubt,
he thought they had so cleverly arranged matters in providing against all mishaps that he never
would be found out. "Veniam ad vos," he continues in the same letter; "et tunc propositis in
unum conditionibus, discussisque in utramque partem rationibus, meliorem, ut spero, eligemus
partem."

Bracciolini was, notwithstanding, undesirous of leaving England just yet, from keeping his
eye fixed upon the main chance. There was the pleasant prospect before him of his living, which
had such heavy duties attached to it, being exchanged for a sinecure worth L20 a year, "all,"
he said, "he coveted, and no more"; but it being uncertain when such good fortune would attend
him, he knew not what to do,--whether, as things now stood, he should return to Italy, and
lose all chance of getting the free benefice, or stay a little longer in England and wait the
possible exchange. "Credo me inventurum pro hac beneficium liberum, et sine cura XX librarum:
hoc si fieri poterit, satis est mihi, nec opto amplius; veruntamen nescio quando hoc inveniam;
neque scio, an sit melius isto venire, prout res nunc se habent, an expectare paulum, quaerens
an possem hanc facere permutationem" (Ep. I. 18). Three months passed without the exchange
being effected, whereupon as time progressed, his hopes, like the courage of Bob Acres, "oozed
out at his fingers' ends." Still he was unwilling to lose what had cost him a great deal of
importunity, as well as much time and anxiety of mind by any fault on his part, such as being
in too great a hurry over the matter; so he told his friend Niccoli when writing to him in
June; as that "there was nothing else which detained him in England but the business of effecting
the exchange of his benefice, which from the badness of the times was a much worse living than
it was considered to be:" he also came to the definite determination that if in two months
what he had been looking for turned up, he would make his arrangements immediately and be off
to his two friends at home; and even if he got nothing, still he would start for Italy in August
at the latest. "Ut alia epistola ad te scripsi, nihil aliud me hic tenet, nisi cura permutandi
hoc beneficium, quod defectu temporum multo tenuius est, quam ferebatur. Nollem enim, id quod
tanto et temporis impendio quaesivi, et animi sollicitudine, nunc amittere vitio festinandi.
Si his duobus mensibus emerserit aliquid, quod cupio, concludam statim, atque ad vos veniam;
sin autem nihil invenero, etiam veniam ad vos." (Ep. I. 22 in.)

Cardinal Beaufort had in the April of 1422 promised to get him a prebend for his church,--a
simple, as distinguished from a dignitary prebend. If without a dean and chapter inducting
him into a prebendal stall, which he did not want, he could go to Italy and there draw every
year the stipend granted for the maintenance of a prebendary out of the estate of an English
collegiate church, possibly in the diocese of Winchester, he would not have visited England
in vain. But when he reminded the Cardinal of his promise, and claimed its performance, Beaufort
receded from his position. "To trust the speeches of such persons," said Bracciolini, "is like
holding a wolf by the ears," (quoting what the old Greeks used to say, [Greek: ton oton echein
ton lukon] when they wanted to denote the awkward position of a man holding on to something
when it was difficult for him to cling to it, and still more dangerous for him to let it go).
From that moment Bracciolini ceased to place any further trust in Cardinal Beaufort, and turned
with redoubled zest to the proposal of Lamberteschi as one on which he alone relied: "Quidam
me duobus jam mensibus suspensum tenet promittens mihi daturum praebendam quandam pro hac ecclesia:
nunc autem cum rem urgerem, et ad calcem cuperem pervenire, recessit a promissis suis. Credere
verbis istorum est, ac si auribus lupum teneas. Tu vero da operam, et cum primum Petrus responderit,
me de eo facias certiorem: nam hoc solum expecto" (Ep. I. 21). From this time his mind was
made up: he would leap the Rubicon: he would go in for the forgery, and his friend must have
confidence in him. So speaking of his powers for the great task which he meditated he proceeds
thus interestingly in the letter to Niccoli bearing date London, the 10th of June, 1422: "I
want you to have no distrust: give me the leisure and the time for 'writing that HISTORY'"
(the nearest approach this to a disclosure of the grand secret so frequently hinted at by him
in the London letters of the spring and summer of 1422), "and I will do something you will
approve. My heart is in the work, though I question my powers." Then quoting the sentiment
from Virgil about "labour overcoming everything," he proceeds with unabated interest: "I have
not for four years devoted any attention to literature, nor read a single book that can be
considered well- written,--as you may judge from these letters of mine which are not what they
used to be; but I shall soon get back into my old manner. When I reflect on the merits of the
ancient writers of history, I recoil with fear from the undertaking" (mark that); "though when
I consider what are the writers of the present day, I recover some confidence in the hope that
if I strive with all my might, I shall be inferior to few of them." He then implores his friend
to let him know the reply of Lamberteschi as soon as possible. "Nec dubites volo; si dabitur
otium et tempus DESCRIBENDI GESTA ILLIUS, aliquid agam quod probabis. Cor bonum, adest mihi;
nescio an vires aderint: tamen 'labor omnia vincit improbus.' Quatuor his annis nullam dedi
operam studiis humanitatis, nec legi librum, quod ad eloquentiam spectaret; quod ex ipsis litteris
meis potes conjicere. Non sunt enim quales esse consuevere; sed tamen brevi tempore redigar
in priorem statum. Cum priores rerum scriptores considero, deterreor a scribendo; cum vero
nostri temporis, nonnihil confido, sperans me paucis inferiorem futurum, si omnino nervos intendero.
Tuum vero sit studium, ut quam primum certior fiam responsionis Petri" (Ep. I. 21).

IV. He did not remain in England long after this; soon after the midsummer of 1422 he left
this country. His motive for taking this step may have been that he ended by giving up all
hope of exchanging his laborious living for a sinecure free benefice, or of obtaining a permanent
appointment to a prebend that was without any jurisdiction attached to it; or, what may be
far more likely, he resolutely abandoned every object he had in view in England for the far
brighter prospects that opened out before him at home if he undertook the forgery which had
been proposed to him by Lamberteschi, and to which he had been invited by the promise of, in
the first instance, a magnificent pecuniary reward, and afterwards the possibility of many
rare advantages.

Only a fortnight after the last letter to Niccoli he addressed to him another, the last he
wrote from London, on the 25th of June, 1422, couched in language which showed how deeply involved
his Florentine friend was in the plot of the forgery: "If Lamberteschi would only place something
certain before us, which we could adopt or approve," he wrote; and "How heartily I hope that
Lamberteschi will do what would be so agreeable to us both." "Si Petrus certum quid responderit,
quod sequi ant probare possimus"--"Quam maxime exopto, ut Petrus perficiat, quae vellemus"
(Ep. I. 22).

From this day we hear no more of him in London. Sometime during the summer of 1422 he returned
to Rome, and, following the advice of the Cardinal Archbishop of Pisa, went back to his old
employment in Rome at the Secretariate, but now, it would appear, as the Principal Secretary
to the Pope,--a post which he obtained with little or no intercession, as borne testimony to
by himself: --"Ego effectus sum Secretarius Pontificis, et quidem nullis precibus, vel admodum
paucis" (Ep. II. 2).

Here then was Bracciolini again in Rome, not then a city of saints and sacred things, but of
scoffing priests and absolved sinners: we all know what Luther said on returning to Wittenberg,
after his first visit to Rome: "everything is permitted there except to be an honest man."
If that was true at the commencement of the sixteenth century, it was much more true at the
commencement of the fifteenth.

Count Corniani, in his "Ages of Italian Literature," is of opinion that Bracciolini had been
in Hungary (II. 76). If so, it must have been after he left England; he could not then have
been so soon, as I have stated, in Rome: he was there, however, for a certainty, as some of
his letters now extant show, in the earlier portion of the spring of the following year; even
this is against his having been in Hungary, except on the ground that almost immediately after
he had arrived there, he found that whatever it was that Lamberteschi had offered to him was
neither practicable nor agreeable; therefore he relinquished it and accepted the office of
Secretary in the Papal Court. Bracciolini, however, does not seem to have gone to Hungary;
nor was there any necessity that he should have done so, if my theory be correct; for then,
so far from Lamberteschi's offer being neither practicable nor agreeable, it was both so feasible
and pleasant, that it was in order to accomplish it, he expressly accepted the Secretary's
post in the Court of Rome. He could not have carried out the forgery had he remained in England,
because he would not have had the necessary leisure, on account of the heavy duties attached
to his cure; and we have seen how he could get neither a sinecure nor a simple prebend; but
to be in the Secretariate of the Papacy was to be the holder of an office with little or nothing
to do, which gave him ample leisure for literary pursuits. He, therefore, became reconciled
to accepting the Papal Secretaryship; "it being the way with a wise man," he observed in a
philosophic spirit, "to do the best he can under circumstances, and be satisfied." If by being
Secretary to the Pope he saw he could procure what he wanted, which was "obtaining a support,"
stick to the Secretariate he would; accordingly, he staid in Rome, devoting himself to his
books. "Parere temporis semper sapientis est habitum. Si videro me hac via consecuturum, quod
cupio, hoc est aliquod sustentaculum, tum adhaeream: quiescens in studiis, hic manebo" (Ep. II. 2).

As if preparing for some great literary undertaking connected with antiquity, he wrote from
Rome on the 15th of May, 1423, to his friend Niccoli to let him have without the least delay
all his notes and extracts from the various books (and they not a few and miscellaneous) which
he had read; here it may be observed that what Cortese, Bishop of Urbino, says of the Camaldolese
General, Traversari, is strictly applicable to him:--"Such was his inexhaustible love of reading,
he regretted a moment spent away from his books; and every day, when not engaged in writing,
devoured the compositions of the ancient Greeks and Romans": ("Erat in hoc homine inexhaustus
quidem legendi amor; nullum enim patiebatur esse vacuum tempus. Quotidie aut scribebat, aut
aliquid ex Graecis Latinisque litteris mandabat"):--"Mittas ad me, rogo, singula commentariola
mea, hoc est, excerpta illa ex variis libris, quos legi, quae sunt plurima, ac dispersa; collige
simul omnia, oro te, et ad me quamprimum mittas" (Ep. II. 2).

Having, no doubt, obtained in due time the notes and extracts wanted, apparently in the autumn
of 1423, he then set about the commencement of his immortal and wonderful forgery, or, as he
styles it in the fabrication itself, his "condensed and inglorious drudgery,"--"nobis in arto
et inglorius labor" (Annal. IV. 31); for in a letter written from Rome in the night of the
8th of October that year he makes a reflection about "beginnings of any kind being arduous
and difficult," following up the remark with these striking words: that "what the ancients
did pleasantly, quickly and easily was to him troublesome, tedious and burdensome"; a remark
which he could not have made unless he was attempting something in the way of the ancients;
unless, moreover, he was just setting about it; then he consoles himself by again repeating
his favourite sage old saw from Virgil: that "hard work gets over everything":--"In quibusvis
quoque rebus principia sunt ardua et difficilia; ut quod antiquioribus in officio sit jucundum,
promptum ac leve, mihi sit molestum, tardum, onerosum. Sed 'labor omnia vincit improbus'" (Ep.
II. 5).

A month after this significant declaration he was hard at work forging the Annals of Tacitus;
for we find him earnestly plying for books that were indispensable for any one writing the
history of the early Roman Emperors. In a letter to Niccoli dated Rome, the 6th of November,
1423, he begs his friend to do all he can to get him some map of Ptolemy's Geography; to bear
it in mind in case one should happen to fall in his way; also not to forget Suetonius and the
other historians, and, above all, Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Characters: "Vellem aliquam
Chartam Ptolemaei Geographiae, si fieri posset; in hoc cogita, si quid forte inciderit; ac
etiam Suetonium, aliosque Historicos, et praesertim Plutarchi Viros Illustres non obliviscaris"
(Ep. II. 7).

If it be said that Bracciolini wrote a History of Florence, and that these remarks which, unquestionably,
refer to some "history" from the expression "describendi gesta illius," apply to that work,
it must be borne in mind that he did not write that history until towards the close of his
life, that is, more than thirty years after these letters which passed between him and Niccoli,
for the events recorded in his History of Florence are carried down to as late as the year
1455; that that historical work is the only one he wrote under his own name; that it is no
more written in imitation of the ancients, than any other of his acknowledged productions;
and that even if it were, he would not have required for its composition such maps as Ptolemy's,
nor such works as those of Suetonius and Plutarch. In fact, the most acute ingenuity cannot
rescue Bracciolini from the charge that in October 1423 he, then resident in Rome, began to
forge a work with the intention of palming it off upon the world as written by an ancient Roman:
as I proceed I shall convincingly show that that ancient Roman was Tacitus, and that that work
was the Annals.

I. When we thus see Bracciolini setting to work in this quiet, business-like manner to forge
the Annals of Tacitus, as if it were a general, common-place occurrence, a grave suspicion
enters the mind whether it was not a thing very ordinarily done in his day; if so, whether
we may not have a wholesale fabrication of the Latin classics; which is very annoying to contemplate
when we remember the number of works we shall have to reject as not having been written by
ancient Romans but by modern Italians, of the fifteenth, and possibly the close of the fourteenth
centuries. The suspicion becomes all the stronger with the fact before us that the literature
of the ancient Romans was totally extinguished in Europe in the very opening centuries of the
Christian aera; and that their language would have been also lost had it not been preserved
till the age of Justinian (527-565) by the pleadings and writings of the leading lawyers; after
which it is generally believed that it was continued to be preserved, along with the literature
of the ancient Romans, in the buildings founded by the various monastic orders of Christians.
Here again we are met by another equally vexing circumstance, it being excessively questionable
whether monasteries ever really conserved, to any, even the least extent, the interests of
human knowledge. Monks never had any love for learning; did not appreciate the volumes of antiquity;
in fact, could not read them; for the Latin was not their Latin; and they are not likely to
have preserved what they did not appreciate and could not read: the libraries they founded
were for bibles, missals and prayer-books: the schools they established were for teaching children
to read the Testament and prayer book, and to sing hymns and psalms, while the ancient manuscripts
they transcribed were, at best, the hagiological productions of the Fathers of the Christian
Church.

But even if the works of the ancient Romans were preserved by the monks in their convent libraries,
that was only till the approach of the last quarter of the sixth century. Then came the dark
period of the conquest of Italy by the last swarm of the northern barbarians from their native
settlements in Pannonia: Italy continued under the iron yoke of the dominion of these illiterate
Lombards till their final overthrow towards the commencement of the last quarter of the eighth
century by the great conqueror, warrior, Christian and devoted admirer of learning, Charlemagne:
during that period literature became entirely extinguished, for in all the vigour and savage
freedom of their fresh and unworn barbarism these Pannonian dunces were as diligent for two
whole centuries (568-774) in demolishing monasteries and destroying books as in levelling fortresses
and ravaging cities. For six centuries after, a confused assemblage of different races of boors,
Franks, Normans and Saracens, occupied Italy; they cared not a fig for knowledge; they did
not know what a book was, for they did not know the alphabet, engaged as they were, like those
kindred spirits in after ages, the Ioways, Mohicans and Ojibbeways, in perpetual wars and bloodshed:
all this time the light of literature never once broke in upon the scene: at length traces
of it were discerned in the revival of learning during the age of Petrarch and the Father of
modern Italian prose, Boccaccio, in the middle of the fourteenth century. Thus for eight hundred
years there was a moral eclipse of all that was excellent in human knowledge in Italy and the
whole West of Europe.

Fortunately there was no such middle age of darkness in Greece: there the light of science
and literature remained unextinguished: the knowledge of the works of antiquity was cultivated
in the East with enthusiasm; and while we may be confident that we possess the works of all
those high and gifted spirits who adorned that bright period which extends from Homer and Hesiod
to Plato and Aristotle, and again the works of all those Greeks who flourished from the death
of Alexander the Great to the death of Augustus Caesar, the brightest of whom were Menander,
Theocritus, Polybius, Strabo, and a gorgeous array of philosophers, sophists and rhetoricians,
we can be by no means sure that we have the real works of the Roman classics; there must even
be the gravest doubt as to the probability; for, though during the close of the fourteenth
century, throughout the fifteenth, and at the commencement of the sixteenth, books purporting
to be of their writing were constantly being recovered, it was invariably under distressingly
suspicious circumstances; exactly the Roman author that was wanted turned up; and always for
a certainty that Roman author for whom the highest price had been offered; the monastery was
rarely famous, seldom in Italy, but obscure and situated in a barbarous country; the discoverer,
too, was not, as is generally supposed, an ignorant, unlettered monk or friar, who could not
read what he found, and who could not, therefore be suspected of having forged what he stated
he had discovered; it was invariably a most cultured scholar, nay, a man of the very highest
literary attainments, an exquisitely accomplished writer, to boot; a "Grammaticus," forsooth,
who possessed a masterly and critical knowledge of the Latin language.

II. The unlettered gloom in which Italy had been immersed for ages was effectually dissipated
by the great number of learned and illustrious Greeks who took refuge in the West of Europe,
in order to escape from Ottoman Power long before the fall of Constantinople. On account of
their enlightenment, literature revived in Florence, Venice and Rome; it speedily spread from
the Cities of the Great Merchants and of the Popes into the provincial and inferior towns;
thus Italy was the first country in the West where good taste, enlightened views, and generous
emulation in the sciences and the fine arts took the place of the ignorance, the avarice and
the venality which for centuries had held sole sway in that civilized portion of the world.
Princes and nobles vied with Popes and Cardinals in the restoration of letters; and now the
best way for a man to advance himself was to show a desire for the promotion of letters; above
all, for the discovery of manuscripts of the ancient classics, which, when long looked for,
and not found, were usually,--from the too tempting reward, which was a fortune,--forged by
some unscrupulous "Grammaticus," or writer of Latin.

III. At the commencement of the fifteenth century, a little band of men lived in Rome: some
were Apostolic Secretaries; all were famous for their abilities; five were scholars endowed
with sterling talents, Antonio Lusco Cincio de Rustici, Leonardo Bruni, and two others from
Florence, Bracciolini, and Dominici, afterwards Cardinal Archbishop of Ragusa. (Pog. Vita p.
180 from Joannes Baptista Poggius in Orat. Card. Capranicae (Miscell. Ballutii Tom. 3.) They
were all friends; and their delight was, like their masters, the Popes, to retire in summer
from the heat of Rome into the cool air of the Campagna; there, after a frugal repast, they
held discourse daily, like men of mind, on a variety of engaging topics: "sumus saepius una
confabulantes variis de rebus," says Bracciolini in a letter to Francesco Marescalcho of Ferrara
(Op. Pog. 307), and continues: "incidit inter nos sermo de viris doctis et eloquentibus."

Of these men, the most extraordinary for superlative qualifications, and, apparently that inseparable
companion of the highest order of genius, indefatigable energy, was Bracciolini. Muratori,
in his "Annali d'Italia" (anno 1459) speaks of him as "letterato insigne di questi tempi,"
and, as leaving behind him when he died on the 30th of October, 1459, "molte opere e gran nome"
(Vol. XIII. 481).

When Bracciolini first joined the Papal Court, Guarino of Verona, Aurispa and Filelfo were
making continuous voyages to Greece in order to fetch home manuscripts of Greek authors yet
unknown in Italy; at this time were found and first brought to the West of Europe the poems
of Callimachus, Pindar, Oppian and Orpheus; the Commentaries of Aristarchus on the Iliad; the
works of Plato, Proclus, Plotinus, Xenophon and Lucian; the Histories of Arrian, Cassius Dio,
and Diodorus Siculus; the Geography of Strabo; Procopius and some of the Byzantine historians;
Gregory of Nazianzen, Chrysostom, and other Greek Fathers of the Church. In emulation of these
men Bracciolini and a band of bookfinders, assisted and rewarded by the wealth of Princes and
Popes, went up and down the countries of Europe to find manuscripts of the ancient works of
the Romans that were supposed to be lost; and it is generally believed that the republic of
letters is more indebted to him than to anybody else of his manuscript finding age for the
numerous books that were found, and which without such timely recovery we are given to understand,
from the decaying state of the manuscript and the pernicious place where it was lighted on,
would very soon, in almost every instance, have been irrecoverably lost.

When Bracciolini accompanied the Papal Court in the capacity of Secretary to the Council of
Constance in 1414, he, one day, went with two friends, Cincio, the Roman gentleman and scholar
of fortune, of the family de Rustici, and the eminent schoolman and finished writer Bartolommeo
de Montepulciano to the monastery of St. Gall about twenty miles distant from Constance for
the purpose of finding new manuscripts; his companions found Lactantius, "De Utroque Homine,"
Vitruvius on Architecture and the Grammar of Priscian, while he himself found, in addition
to the Commentaries of Asconius Pedianus on eight of Cicero's Orations,--the three first books,
and half of the fourth of the Argonauticon of Valerius Flaccus. On this discovery being communicated
to Francesco Barbaro, the latter in his reply spoke of other discoveries of Bracciolini's,
of some of which we have no account as to where they were found, nor when, except before 1414:
Tertullian, Lucretius, Silius Italicus, Ammianus Marcelinus, Manilius (his unfinished poem
on "Astronomy," clearly a forgery), Lucius Septimius Caper, Eutychius and Probus; and, adds
Barbaro, "many others,"--"complures alios," among which Aulus Gellius may be included. All
these were found not by Bracciolini alone, but always in the company of very remarkable characters,
and more frequently than any other, Bartolommeo de Montepulciano, of whom nothing is known,
except that he was a splendid scholar, and great bookfinder, or forger (the terms are synonymous),
and that he resided in Rome in a pleasant villa situated near the Lateran Church (Pog. Op. p. 2).

In the oration which he delivered over the remains of his friend Niccoli (Op. 272) Bracciolini
says that he found in French and German monasteries, besides Quintilian, Silius Italicus, and
part of the poem of Lucretius, some orations of Cicero and Nonius Marcellus. In his Treatise
"de Infelicitate Principum" (p. 394), and in one of his Letters (II. 7), he mentions having
found Cicero's Orations along with Columella in the Monastery of Cluny in the Maconnois district
of Burgundy; he gives the number of the Orations of Cicero, which were eight (Ep. IV. 2), and
which are generally supposed to have been those for Caecina, Rubirius and Roscius, against
Rullus and Lucius Piso, and those relating to the Agrarian Laws. He also found Cicero's two
treatises De Legibus and De Finibus. In his Descriptio Ruinarum Urbis Romae he states that
he found in the Monastery of Monte Casino, near Naples, Frontinus on the Aqueducts of Rome,
and it was, as we know from one of his letters (III. 37), in July 1429. The Abbe Mehus, in
the preface to his edition of the works of Traversari, adds that he found the eight books of
the Mathematics of Firmicus, which is confirmed by himself (Ep. III. 37). While in England
he recovered the poems of Julius Calpurnicus who wrote pastorals in the reign of the Emperor
Carus; he also lighted in the monasteries on part of Petronius Arbiter (Ep. IV. 3), also part
of Statius, and book XV. in Cologne in 1423 (ib.); six years after he found the following twelve
plays of Plautus: Bacchides, Mostellaria, Mercator, Miles Gloriosus, Pseudolus, Poenulus, Persa,
Rudens, Stichus, Trinummus and Truculentus. In fact, he was occupied nearly all his days, as
long as he was in the vigour of life, in traversing Germany and other lands in search of ancient
manuscripts, which he recovered in monasteries at different times and in different places;
nor was he to be deterred from these toils, which have been likened to the labours of Hercules,
by any stress of weather, length of journey or badness of roads.

IV.--The account which he gives in his Dialogue "De Infelicitate Principum," while dwelling
upon a custom of his of going from one country to another in far distant and barbarous parts
for Latin books, opens our eyes to a very strange state of belief which obtained at the beginning
of the fifteenth century with respect to the refined works of the ancients;--that, because
a number of these manuscripts were discovered by him, and his band of bookfinders, in obscure
monasteries in barbarous countries, there was to be deduced therefrom a definite conclusion
that many more were to be discovered in that way; and that this conclusion was so firmly lodged
in the minds of men it prevented Popes and Princes from continuing to offer that pecuniary
aid and those other rewards which they had been for a long time in the habit of tendering for
the recovery of such manuscripts:--"When these," says he in the above-mentioned treatise, "had
been brought to light by him, and when the very sanguine and certain hope was held forth of
more being found, never after that did either a Pope or a Prince give the slightest attention
or assistance to the recovery of those most illustrious men out of the convents of barbarians:"--
"haec cum ab eo fuissent in lucem edita, cumque uberior et certa spes proposita esset ampliora
inveniendi, nunquam postea aut pontifex aut princeps vel minimum operae aut auxilii adhibuit
ad liberandos praeclarissimos illos viros ex ergastulis barbarorum" (p. 393). This statement
is so remarkably curious that it requires a little consideration.

We can easily understand how the valuable works of the Greeks and Romans, from the importance
attached to them and the appreciation in which they were held, were safest and longest preserved
in their respective countries, and that, therefore, they could have been found, sooner than
elsewhere, in Greece and Italy; but after those countries had been thoroughly ransacked, it
is not so clear to comprehend how it should follow that their works were to be just as rapidly
and easily found in other, and those barbarous countries, nay, indeed, more rapidly and more
easily. To put this forth was to endeavour to prepare people's minds for the numbers of discoveries
that were made, or, perhaps, more properly, pretended to be made in foreign parts. It was,
in fact, to pursue this course of reasoning:--If those works had remained in civilized hands,
centuries would not have elapsed without the world being cognizant of their existence; the
learned could not have lost sight of them; the select few would have transmitted copies from
generation to generation; but when they passed into the possession of unlettered men living
in barbarous countries, they would then be altogether hidden from view; such people would treat
them as swine treat pearls; spurn them; not keep them in libraries, but throw them away as
useless lumber into cellars, pits, dark holes, dirty passages, dry wells; fling them away as
refuse into dustbins or upon dungheaps. Nearly as much says Bracciolini by these shadowy phrases:
"in darkness"; "in a blind dungeon"; "in a dirty dungeon;" "in dismal dungeons," and "in many
dens," as for instance, "for the sake of finding books that were kept by them in their convents
shut up in darkness and in a blind dungeon" (Op. 393)--"He had rescued renowned authors out
of the dismal dungeons in which, against their will and without being used, they had been kept
concealed (for they were shut up in many a den and foul dungeon" (ib.):-- "in tenebris"; "carcere
caeco"; "foedo carcere"; "diris carceribus," and "multis vinculis," e.g.:--"librorum perquirendorum
gratia, qui in ergastulis apud illos reclusi detinentur in tenebris, et carcere caeco" (Op.
393)-- "Autores praeclaros ... ex diris carceribus quibus inviti obsoletique opprimuntur eruisset
(sunt enim multis vinculis et foedo carcere abstrusi" (ib.). Books thrown away in such places
must be regarded, when recovered, as found by the purest accident; hence it was at once comprehensible
how they had remained unknown to the world for hundreds of years; for who would think of looking
for books in such places?

Yet it was precisely in such places that Bracciolini and his companions looked for the books
that they wanted; what is still stranger, they always found in such queer places the exact
books they were in search of. It was so, for example, when they recovered the books in the
monastery of St. Gall; the books were not found where, Bracciolini admits, they ought to have
been, on account of their excellence, on the shelves of the library, but where slugs and toads
are more frequently looked for and found than books and manuscripts, in an exceedingly dirty
and dark dungeon at the bottom of a tower and one of these books, Quintilian, though described
as "sound and safe," is also described as being "saturated with moisture and begrimed with
mire," as if it had been made dirty expressly for the occasion of the recovery: "Quintilianum
comperimus, adhuc salvum et incolumem, plenum tamen situ et pulvere squalentem. Erant non in
bibliotheca libri illi, ut eorum dignitas postulabat, sed in teterrimo quodam et obscuro carcere,
fundo scilicet unius turris." (From a letter of Bracciolini to Guarino of Verona, preserved
in St. Paul's Library, Leipzic--printed at the end of Poggiana, and dated Jan. 1, 1417).

V. This kind of reasoning, when admitted, throws the door open to fraud and forgery; but it
cannot be admitted, because it is fallacious in reality, sound in appearance only, as will
be seen by only putting a few natural questions:--How came these books into such places? Who
took them from Italy, Greece, or other enlightened parts of the globe? If some learned monk,
made abbot or prior of a convent of Germany or Hungary? or some equally learned priest sent
as bishop to christianize the heathen in still more barbarous lands in the North in a far distant
age, why should succeeding monks, fonder, be it granted, of ploughing and reaping than reading
and writing, treat as refuse books which, though not deemed by them of any value, as far as
their own tastes and inclinations were concerned, they, nevertheless, knew were held in the
very highest esteem by the studious in more civilized parts; and that these studious people,
understanding the language in which they were written, and considering their contents most
precious, would willingly give in exchange for them at any time not large, but enormous sums
of money?

These are questions that cannot be answered with satisfaction: they seem to give the highest
colouring of truth to what has been suggested, that there was a wholesale forgery of these
books; and one is almost inclined to give Father Hardouin credit, for being quite right, when
he expressed as his belief that, perhaps, not more than two or three of the ancient Latin classics
were really written by the old Romans. [Endnote 208]

VI. The clause in the passage just quoted from the "De Infelicitate Principum":--"never after"
In that way men, in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, made large fortunes. In that way
Bracciolini made his.

The finding of any ancient Latin MSS. was a distinct profession in those days, and Bracciolini
may be said to have studied the art, of which he was one of the greatest experts, so carefully,
and to have practised it with such ability and diligence as to have elevated it into a science.
Many enterprising scholars before him had devoted themselves with indefatigable perseverance
to traversing, sometimes singly, but more frequently in bands of two, three, or more, Italy,
Greece, Spain, and the more civilized countries of Europe for the purpose of ransacking,--or
pretending to ransack,--the shelves of convent libraries of their treasures. As scarcely anything
was more profitable than searching for MSS.,-- particularly when it was certain that, after
the looking for, they would be found, if not of the particular authors wanted, yet of others
that would repay for the searching;--and as Emperors and Popes, Kings, Princes, Cardinals,
Ministers and Bishops paid fabulous prices for the literary treasures of ancient Rome, Bracciolini
improved upon this plan by extending the area of search into the woods of Germany, the wildernesses
of Bohemia and Hungary, and the not then over civilized fastnesses and forests of England and
marshes and bogs of France: the great thing with him and his companions was, when they could
not find, to forge; all they had to ascertain was simply which ancient Roman was particularly
wanted and would fetch the highest price; and as the band consisted of men of genius of different
tastes or faculties,-- poetical, historical or narrative, philosophical, grammatical or critical,
and scientific or mathematical, if the reward was sufficiently munificent to pay for the time
and labour, the highly valued work that was wanted, no matter to what department of literature
or science it belonged, was sure to turn up, sooner or later; and if the man who was to forge
was not in the proper mood of inspiration for the business, some other fabricated writer was
put forward on the ground that he was quite equivalent in merit to the author that was desiderated,
as when a thief or other vagabond is wanted by a London Detective, he is certain to turn up
in due time, and if not the actual delinquent, at any rate somebody else as bad, who serves
equally well for the culprit.

VII. Bracciolini now engaged in forging an addition to the History of Tacitus, impelled to
it from his intolerable and restless passion for the acquisition of a fortune, greater even
than his constantly increasing avidity for knowledge, soon saw that it was a task beset by
enormous difficulties; nay, difficulties of an apparently insuperable nature. We have no record
that he was aware of this; but we require no record to know it; his proceedings pointed to
it: We have already speculated as to the reasons which must have induced him to forge the Annals
so strangely as he did, but before those reasons could have entered his mind, they must have
been preceded by others: it is to be presumed that he endeavoured, in the first instance, to
continue the History of Tacitus, as Tacitus himself would have continued it, by following up
the history of Domitian with that of Nerva; but the few materials that were left rendered it
impossible for him to record the events in that Emperor's reign on the broad and expansive
plan adopted by Tacitus, which was to spread out the events of one year so that they should
fill four lengthy books. He therefore gave up the notion as utterly impracticable; but in trying
to get out of the forgery of the Annals he suggested another scheme of fabrication just as
audacious, and which he seems to have imagined would have been just as remunerative.

Two months after he had written for Ptolemy's maps, Plutarch's Lives, and the works of Suetonius
and other historians of the first Roman Emperors, he addressed another letter to his Florentine
friend, Niccoli, dated the 8th of January, 1424, in which he hinted at no less a forgery than
the whole of Livy's History, and if circumstances had been favourable to it, we should have,
doubtless, had a composition so like the original,--even so much more like than even what was
afterwards honourably and admirably done by Freinshemius,--as to have defied detection. His
statement was that a learned Goth, who had been a great traveller, had told him he had seen
the Ten Decades of Livy's History in the Cistercian Abbey of Sora, near Roschild, about a day's
journey from Lubeck. He wrote in the highest spirits, as gay as a butterfly, as playful as
a kitten, and as light as a balloon; he implored his friend to lose no time in seeking out
Cosmo de Medici and get his consent for the finding of these volumes, which he described as
written in two large, oblong volumes in Lombard characters. He added that the man who had brought
the news was not to be relied upon, yet he wished to believe him in a matter "out of which
coin could be made to such an amount as to be absolutely incredible,"--"ex qua tantum lucrum
fieri posset, quam esse omnino incredulus" (Ep. II. 9).

He wished it to be further communicated to Leonardo Bruni who had just been appointed Chancellor
of the Republic of Florence, in hopes, no doubt, that Bruni would further the scheme by money
assistance; he also wrote about it to Leonello d'Este;--all which eagerness on his part with
respect to forging the lost books of Livy can be easily accounted for, when, in exchange for
a mere copy of Livy's imperfect history he got from Beccadelli of Bologna, the minister of
King Alphonso I. of Arragon, a sum sufficient wherewith to purchase a landed estate:--"Poggio
vendette un codice di Tito Livio per acquistarsi un podere, e il Panormita vendette un podere
per acquistare il codice di Tito Livio" (Corniani, tom. II. p. 122). Although, for the purpose
of making a statement with a telling or striking effect, these are the words of Count Corniani
in his "I Secoli della Letteratura Italiana," it was not exactly "a farm" that was taken and
given by the accepter and disposer of a manuscript copy of Livy; Count Corniani himself is
immediately his own contradicter by quoting in a note a passage from one of Beccadelli's Letters
(Lib. V.), to the effect that the "farm" in Bracciolini's case was a "villa at Florence," as
Beccadelli thus wrote to King Alphonso: "But I also want to know who in your judgment acted
wiser, Poggio or myself; he, that he might buy a villa at Florence, sold a Livy which he had
written with his own hand and was a most beautiful copy; I, that I might buy a Livy, sold a
farm by auction":--"Sed et illud a prudentia tua scire desidero, uter ego an Poggius melius
fecerit: is ut Villam Florentiae emerit, Livium vendidit, quem sua manu pulcherrimus scripserat;
ego ut Livium emam, fundum proscripsi." If Bracciolini could get so much for an incomplete
copy of Livy's History, what might he not hope to get for a complete one? Imagination wanders
into the realms of fairy. I am confident that if he had received the requisite encouragement
from Niccolo Niccoli, or Leonardo Bruni, or Cosmo de Medici, or that munificent patron of letters,
Leonello d' Este, afterwards that enormously wealthy prince, the Marquis of Ferrara, and had
undertaken the task, he would have been more successful as an imitator of Livy than he proved
himself to be (marvellous though he was) as an imitator of Tacitus. The genius of Livy, and
also of Sallust, was more in accord with his own than the staid majestic coldness and the solemn
curt sententiousness of Tacitus. Indeed, he was such a devoted admirer of Livy and Sallust,
that he reminds the reader of them throughout his History of Florence; in the Annals, too,
he goes out of his way to lavish praises upon them, and upon them only of all the Roman historians:
he speaks of Sallust as the "finest writer of Roman history": and of Livy, as "famous, above
others, for eloquence and fidelity":--"Caius Sallustius, rerum Romanarum florentissimus auctor"
(III. 30):-- "Titus Livius, eloquentiae ac fidei praeclarus in primis" (IV. 34). Tacitus nowhere
expresses such very lofty opinions of his, two fellow and rival historians; on the contrary,
he does not seem to have so thoroughly approved their style and manner; at any rate, he carefully
avoided their mode of treating history. It is true that in his Agricola he speaks well of Livy,
but at the same time he places Fabius Rusticus exactly upon the same level with him:--for he
says "that Livy among the ancients, and Fabius Rusticus among the modern authors were the most
eloquent": "Livius veterum, Fabius Rusticus recentium, eloquentissimi auctores" (10); he, therefore,
never could have spoken of Livy, as Bracciolini speaks of him in the Annals, as "famous, above
others,"-- "praeclarus in primis." This is another of those little slips of Bracciolini's,
which, without question, at once, bring his forgery to light.

VIII. After these remarks, it cannot but be highly interesting to the reader if I now place
before him the whole of the very remarkable, and what should be ever-memorable letter about
the contemplated forgery of Livy, not only for the subject on which it touches, but as exhibiting
Bracciolini in his most playful, and, it may also be added, most roguish mood:--

"A learned man who is a Goth in race, and has travelled over a great part of the world, has
been here; he is a man of a good understanding, but unreliable. He said that he had seen the
X. Decades of Livy, in two big and oblong volumes written in Lombard characters, and there
was on the title page of one volume a note that the codex contained the ten decades of Titus
Livy, and that he had read some parts of these volumes. This he asserts with an air of truth
that commands belief; he told the same tale to Cardinal Orsini, and to many more, and to all
in the very same words, so that I think this is no fib of his. What more do you want? This
statement of his, and his serious countenance, cause me to give some credence to him. For it
is a very good thing to be misled in a matter of this kind, out of which coin can be made to
such an amount as to be absolutely incredible. Therefore I have wanted to write to you about
this, that you may talk over it with Cosmo, and anxiously set to work for these volumes to
be searched for; it will be an easy job for you. The books are in the Monastery at Sora that
belongs to the Cistercian Order, about two German miles from Roschild, that is, a little more
than a day's journey from Lubeek. Prick up your ears, Pamphilus. See then that Cosmo writes
as soon as possible to Gherard de Bueri, for him to betake himself there when he has the opportunity,--aye,
betake himself at once to the Monastery. For if this is true, it will be a triumph over the
Dacians. The Cardinal will send somebody there, or commission a person to start post-haste.
I don't want such a big pill as this to slip out of our own throats; therefore, be on the stir,
look alive, and don't sleep over it. For this is just what the man has stated, and though he
might seem to talk too fast, yet there is no reason why he should tell an impudent lie, especially
as he can gain nothing by telling lies. Therefore, I, who am such a sort of man as scarcely
to believe what I see, am induced to think that this is not entirely false, and in a matter
of this kind it is a proper thing to be deceived. Run then to Cosmo,--press him,--importune
him to make an advance for these books to be brought to you safe and sharp. Adieu. Rome, the
8th of January, 1424. What you do, mind you let me know. In haste. Tell this to our Chancellor,
Leonardo. In that monastery nearly all the kings of the Dacians are buried:"--

"Venit huc quidam doctus homo natione Gothus, qui peragravit magnam partem orbis; homo quidem
est ingenio acuto, sed inconstans. Idem retulit se vidisse X. decades Livii, duobus voluminibus
magnis, et oblongis, scriptas litteris Longobardis, et in titulo esse unius voluminis, in eo
contineri decem decades Titi Livii, seque legisse nonnulla in iis voluminibus. Hoc ita verum
esse asserit, ut credi possit; retulit hoc Cardinali de Ursinis, multisque praeterea, et omnibus
eisdem verbis, ut opinor, non esse haec ab eo conficta. Quid quaeris? Facit assertio sua, et
constans vultus, ut credam aliquid. Itaque volui hoc ad te scribere, ut loquaris cum Cosmo,
desque solicite operam, ut haec volumina quaerantur; nam facile erit vobis. Libri sunt in Monasterio
de Sora, ordinis Cisterciensium, prope Roschild ad duo milliaria theutonica, hoc est, prope
Lubich paulo amplius quam est iter diei unius. Arrige aures, Pamphile. Cura ergo, ut Cosmus
scribat quam primum diligenter ad Gherardum de Bueris, ut, si opus sit, ipse eo se conferat;
imo omnino se conferat ad Monasterium. Nam si hoc verum est, triumphandum erit de Dacis. Cardinalis
mittet illuc nescio quem, aut committet uni propediem discessuro. Nollem hunc tantum bolum
de faucibus nostris cadere; itaque matura, ac diligenter; ne dormias. Nam haec vir ille ita
affirmavit, ut quamvis verbosior videretur, tamen nulla esset causa, cur ita impudenter mentiretur,
praesertim nullo proposito mentiendi praemio. Ego igitur ille, qui vix credo quae video, adducor,
ut hoc non omnino esse falsum putem, et hac una in re honestum est falli. Tu igitur curre,
insta, preme Cosmum, ut aliquid expendat, quo litterae cito tutae deferantur. Vale. Romae die
VIII. Januarii 1424. Quid autem egeritis, cura, ut sciam. Manu veloci. Dicas haec Leonardo
nostro Cancellario. In eo monasterio omnes fere Dacorum reges sepeliuntur." (Lib. II. Ep. 9.)

I cannot pass away from this singular letter without some comment. It is very certain that
there never was known to have been any such copy of Livy in the Monastery of Sora, though Tiraboschi,
who is simple enough to believe in the sincerity of Bracciolini, speaks of these volumes as
having shared the same fate as other manuscripts, that is, being lost:--"questo si raro codice
ha avuta la stessa sorte degli altri" (Vol. I. p. 452 n.). We may be assured that the "two
big, oblong volumes" never had an existence:--the two volumes, like Sir John Falstaff's men
in buckram, increase in number in the telling, for in a subsequent letter addressed by Bracciolini
to Leonello d'Este, the "two" become "THREE": what is more, the learned Goth's "serious statement"
is "a sacred oath"; the "Lombard characters" are intermixed with some "Gothic" ones, and "another
person" is found who declares that he has also seen the whole of the Decades of Livy:--"Nicolaus
quidam, natione Gothus ... sancte juravit esse ... TRIA praegrandia volumina, et oblonga, conscripta
literis Longobardis et nonnullis praeterea Gothicis intermixtis ... nunc quoque alius testis
horum librorum reperiatur, qui se quoque decades omnes vidisse asseveret" (Pog. Ep. XXX., post
lib. De Variet. Fortun.). After this one is almost inclined to exclaim with Shakespeare's Prince
Hal: "Prithee, let him alone: we shall have more anon." Where there is such inconsistency in
the putting of a statement, the account looks uncommonly like a figment. We may be equally
sure that the learned Goth never had an existence, any more than the "two" volumes, or the
"three" volumes; (for, with the different statements, it is difficult to determine their number),
nor, consequently, can there be any truth about the communication made by the Goth to Cardinal
Orsini, and many others.

It will have been observed also that Bracciolini himself insists on the probable myth of the
whole tale; the learned Goth is "unreliable"; he maintains that he is "telling no fib"; Bracciolini
doubts himself whether what he hears is "true," but he can "see no reason why the man should
lie": thus repeatedly in a very short letter he strongly suspects the veracity of the story--
he only believes it because he wishes to believe it.

The whole thing was trumped up by himself for a very obvious reason: he wanted to ascertain
whether Cosmo de' Medici (or any other rich man) would give money (in fact, a fortune,) for
the recovered portion of the whole History of Livy: that being ascertained, he had his own
scheme of further procedure; he kept that to himself; it has died with him, and, never having
been revealed, it can only be divined:--my conjecture (looking at the character of Bracciolini)
is that he would have played upon the credulity of Cosmo de' Medici, Leonardo Bruni, Leonello
d'Este (or any other man whom he could have duped) till he had had time, which would have been
years, to forge what he would have continued to assert, until the completion of the forgery,
was in existence somewhere in Germany, a mistake only having been made by the "learned Goth"
as to the name and site of the monastery. Hence his speaking of that imaginary individual as
"unreliable,"--or whatever else he may mean by "inconstans,"--a word that he uses to denote
a man who might fall into mistakes, as, for example, in not recollecting the exact name or
precise situation of a monastery, but who could not possibly err as to the nature of a book
which he had seen, handled, opened and read, and had learning to understand what he read.

IX. Notwithstanding the enthusiasm and energy, as well as the craft and force, with which he
laid the foundation for its acceptance, nothing came of this grand determination--this indirect
proposal of his to produce by imposture the whole lost portion of the history of Livy; so whether
he liked it or not, if he wanted to get a sum equivalent in these days to a little fortune
of L10,000 at the least, he had to return to the fabrication of the Annals of Tacitus; and
get through the ungrateful task as best he could. So, "hanging down his ears," as Horace says,

    "ut iniquae mentis asellus,
    Cum gravius dorso subiit onus,"

he steadily set to work in the January of 1424, with a patient soul and an iron will to the
completion of the dolorous drudgery from which he had ascertained to his sorrow there was no
escape.

All went on for months,--for years in silence and secresy, as the case always is when mischief
is brewing. Upwards of three years and a half thus elapsed; then the low and hidden rumblings
of the volcano were again heard; once more vague and mysterious utterances with respect to
Tacitus passed in their correspondence between Bracciolini and Niccoli. Two years,--or nearly
that time,-- again passed: then followed the pangs of labour from the womb of forgery: through
the hands of Bracciolini came a hitherto thoroughly unknown MS. of Tacitus, which he said had
been brought to him by a monk from a far distant convent in the easternmost corner of Saxony,
on the borders of Bohemia; (the reader will be pleased to observe not "Hungary" although the
country adjacent to it;--so circumstances shift and vary, in the lapse of years, and owing
to the inconstancy of men's intentions). The new codex was an affair at once startling and
gratifying: it was such a triumph over darkness in the progress of knowledge that it rivalled
a conquest over the Dacians in the march of civilization: for the first time it brought to
light as the opening portion of the History of Tacitus what are now known as "The Last Six
Books of the Annals." These I shall now endeavour to point out were the handiwork of Bracciolini,
to whose wondrous power of assimilating his literary abilities to those of another I must pay
this just tribute;--that in those six books of the Annals he mastered the simplicity, though
he came far short of the elegance of Tacitus.

END OF BOOK THE SECOND.

BOOK THE THIRD.

THE LAST SIX BOOKS OF THE ANNALS.

    Quum itaque multa ex Taciti operibus deessent, ut Nicoli
    voluntati morem gereret Poggius, nil omisit intentatum, ut per
    Monachum nescio quem e Germania Tacitum erueret.
     MEHUS, Praefat. ad Lat. Epistol. Traversarii.

I. There is a great difference between the first six books of the Annals and the last six books;
the latter portion is more historical, and less biographical than the first portion: there
is an obvious attempt to assimilate it as closely as possible to the work of Tacitus; and any
material difference in the character of the two productions is not to be detected at a superficial
glance. Hence many most intelligent readers are led astray in believing that the Annals and
the History of Tacitus proceeded from the same hand, from not sufficiently bearing in mind
that whatever a history may be, the general character must always be the same; plots and intrigues
being alike, as well as stratagems and revolutions; also persons and passions: the reason is
clear: man ever remains the same, affording the same examples of virtues and vices, and carrying
on wars in the same way, according to interest and ambition, while the most important events
in which he plays a part resemble in having their origin from trivial causes, as rivers, even
the mightiest, take their source from insignificant springs.

But while nobody discerns any such material difference in the character of the Annals and the
History of Tacitus as to be struck with wonder, everybody is filled with amazement at there
being in the two works two such very different conceptions of historical composition. In the
History only full light is thrown on important events and leading characters: that this may
shine the brighter every common action is thrown into the shade, and every small individual
passed over unmentioned. But the pages in the last six books of the Annals are crowded with
incidents, great and small, and figures, good, bad and indifferent. Contrary also to Tacitus,
who disposes materials in a just order, arranging those together that refer to the same thing
at different times, the writer of the Annals speaks of cognate things, that should be associated,
separately, as they occur from year to year, thus reducing his narrative from the height of
a general history to the level of a mere diary.

The audacity of the forgery is here something absolutely marvellous;--and it never would have
been attempted by any one who was not made of the stuff of Bracciolini: it was the stuff that
makes a forger: anyone with proper appreciation of men's intelligence would not have dared
to do this; but, instead of regarding the majority of his kind as sagacious, or even more so
than they are, and knowing much, or more than they do,--as is the case with well-disposed people,--Bracciolini,
who was far from being of a benevolent nature, fell into the very opposite extreme, of looking
upon men as remarkably stupid and ignorant. Nothing is more common than meeting in his works
with contemptuous disparagements of his kind; he scoffs at human nature for its deficiency
of understanding; he does not hesitate decrying its want of thought, as in his Essay "De Miseria
Humanae Conditionis": "we must at times recollect," says he, "that we are men, silly and shallow
in our nature":--"aliquando nos esse homines meminerimus, hoc est, imbecillis fragilisque naturae"
(p. 130); or, "I admit the silliness of mankind to be great": "fateor--magnam esse humani generis
imbecillitatem" (p. 90); or, "Knowledge is cultivated by a few on account of the general stupidity":
"quoniam communi stultitia a paucis virtus colitur" (p. 9l): pretty well this for one work.
Then opening his "Historia Disceptativa Convivalis," the reader lights on him sneering at the
"shallowness and silliness of his age":--"haec fragilis atque imbecilla aetas" (p. 32). As
in his elaborate and carefully conned works, so in his Epistles thrown off on the spur of the
moment,--as when he is inviting his friend Bartolomeo Fazio to stay with him in Florence, he
continues: "Though I have lived in this city now for a great many years, from my youth upwards,
yet every day as if a fresh resident I am overcome with amazement at the number of the remarkable
objects, and very often am roused to enthusiasm at the sight of those public buildings which
fools, from the stupidity of their understandings, speak of as erected by supernatural beings":--"quamvis
in ea jam pluribus annis ab ipsa juventute fuerim versatus, tamen quotidie tamquam novus incola
tantarum rerum admiratione obstupesco, recreoque persaepe animum visu eorum aedificiorum, quae
stulti propter ingenii imbecillitatem a daemonibus facta dicunt" (Ep. IX. Bartol. Facii Epist.
p. 79, Flor. Ed. 1745).

II. With such a low notion of men's intelligence and the stupidity of his age (though it was
a clever one,--at least, so far as Italy was concerned, the country of which he had the closest
knowledge and with which he had the most constant intercourse), it is to be expected,--quite
natural, in fact, that he should have regarded lightly the difficulties he had to encounter
in his endeavours to imitate Tacitus; and though he must have been thoroughly conscious that
it was not in his power victoriously to surmount them, yet he cared not, for he did not fear
detection, viewing, as he did, with such withering and lordly disdain the want of perspicacity
which, in his fancy, characterized his species. He worked on, then, as best he could, with
courage and confidence; every now and then doing things that never would have been done by
Tacitus: the story, for example, of Sabina Poppaea in the 14th book; Tacitus would have surely
passed it over as, though having some relation to the public, coming within the province of
biography. Unquestionably, Tacitus would have rejected as strictly unhistorical the dark tale
of murder and adultery of the tribune of the people, Sagitta, and the private woman, Pontia,
which has no more to do with the historical affairs of the Romans, than a villainous case of
adultery in the Divorce Court, or a monstrous murder tried at the Old Bailey is in any way
connected with the public transactions of Great Britain. [Endnote 231]

What history, then, we have in the last six books of the Annals does not remind us in its character
of the history taken note of by Tacitus.

The tone and treatment, too, are not his.

The Jesuit, Rene Rapin, in his Comparisons of the Great Men of Antiquity (Reflexions sur l'Histoire,
p. 211), may, with a violent seizure of ecstacy, fall, like a genuine Frenchman, into a fit
of enthusiasm over the description, as "exquisite in delicacy and elegance" ("tout y est decrit
dans une delicatesse et dans une elegance exquise" says he), of the lascivious dancing of Messalina
and her wanton crew of Terpsichorean revellers when counterfeiting the passions and actions
of the phrenzied women-worshippers of Bacchus celebrating a vintage in the youth of the world,
when the age was considered to be as good as gold: the gay touches in the lively picture may
be introduced with sufficient warmth to enrapture the chaste Jesuit priest, and judiciously
enough to contrast boldly with the dreadful, tragic details of the shortly ensuing death of
the Empress; but they are not circumstances that would have ever emanated with their emotional
particularities from the solemn soul of Tacitus. The passage is only another powerful proof
how absolutely ineffectual was the attempt of Bracciolini to render history after the style
of the stern, majestic Roman.

III. Every now and then, too, the most extraordinary errors with respect to facts cannot be
explained by the hypothesis that Tacitus wrote the Annals; for there could not have been such
deviations from truth on the part of any Roman who lived in the time of the first Caesars:
on the other hand, the errors are just of the character which makes it look uncommonly as if
they were the unhappy blunders of a mediaeval or Renaissance writer such as Bracciolini. An
instance or two will best illustrate what is meant.

In the Twelfth Book Lollia Paulina is made to consult the Colophonian Oracle of Apollo Clarius
respecting the nuptials of the Emperor Claudius: "interrogatumque Apollinis Clarii simulacrum
super nuptiis Imperatoris" (An. XII. 22). How could this be? when Strabo, who lived in the
time of Augustus, tells us that in his day that oracle no longer existed, only the fame of
it, for his words are: "the grove of Apollo Clarius, in which there used to be the ancient
oracle":--[Greek: "alsos tou Klariou Apollonos, en ho kai manteion aen pote palaion"] (XIV.
I. 27). This is quite convincing that Tacitus could not have written those words.

There is another reason against Tacitus having made the statement: he must have been aware
from personal knowledge that his countrymen obtained all their oracular responses from water.
Bracciolini might have known that this custom prevailed among the Romans during the time of
the Caesars, had he consulted Lucian's Alexander or Pseudomantis, Melek (better known as Porphyry),
and, above all, Jamblicus, who, in his book upon Egyyptian, Chaldaean and Assyrian Mysteries,
speaks (III. 11) of the habit among the Romans of "interpreting the divine will by water":
[Greek: di hudatos chraematizesthai], and explains the manner how, "for in a subterraneous
temple" (by which, I presume, Jamblicus means a "sanctified cave or grotto") there was a fountain,
from which the augur drank," [Greek: einai gar paegaen en oiko katageio, kai ap autaes pinein
ton prophaetaen.] How can we believe that Tacitus was ignorant of such an ordinary native ceremony,
and one, too, that must have come repeatedly within his ken?

Another error is, apparently, very trifling, but it becomes quite startling when we are to
suppose that it was made by Tacitus, an accepted authority upon the people in question,--the
ancient Germans of the first century of our aera:--that people who (according to Sanson's Maps
and Geographical Tables) inhabited what was then known as "Germany," namely, the country between
the Danube and the Rhine, with Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the western portion of Poland and some
part of the kingdom of Hungary,--are represented as having HOUSEHOLD GODS, for we are told
that if Italicus had had the spirit of his father (Flavius, brother of Armin), he would have
done what his parent did, wage war more rancorously than any man, against his country and his
"Household Gods"; "Si paterna Italico mens esset, non alium infensius coutra patriam ac Deos
Penates, quam parentes ejus exercuisse" (An. XV. 16). Into this mistake Tacitus could not possibly
have fallen, from being thoroughly acquainted with the manners of the Germans, as he has shown
in his work on that subject: he knew that that people had only one set of gods whom they worshipped
publicly in sacred groves and woods, but none corresponding to the Roman Dei Penetrales, privately
worshipped at home.

We have read scarcely more than a page from the commencement of that portion of the Annals
where the forgery began,--the Eleventh Book,--before we find that a mistake is made about Gotarzes
being the brother of Artabanus: for he is described as having "compounded poison for the particular
purpose of killing his 'brother' Artabanus and his wife and son": "necem fratri Artabano conjugique
ac filio ejus praeparaverat" (An. XI. 8). Artabanus was the father, as may be seen in Josephus:
"not long after Artabanus died, leaving his kingdom to his son Vardanes: [Greek: "Met' ou polun
de chronon Artabanos telueta, taen Basileian to paidi Ouardanae katalipon"] (Antiq. Jud. XX.
3, 4 in init). Vardanes (according to Josephus), but (according to other writers) Bardanes
was the brother of Gotarzes; as was known to Bracciolini who speaks of "Gotarzes revealing
to his brother," meaning Bardanes, "a conspiracy of their countrymen which had been disclosed
to him": "cognitis popularium insidiis, quas Gotarzes fratri patefecerat" (An. XI. 9). It cannot
be said that Bracciolini was unacquainted with Josephus; for he follows him closely in the
last six books of the Annals; further he mentions him in his letters, for he says that he has
been "a long while waiting for his works," (to make use of them in his forgery): "Jamdiu expectavi
Josephi libros," &c. (Ep. III. 28): his memory, notwithstanding, entirely failed him with respect
to the passage in question, or else he paid no heed to it.

While he makes this misstatement about Gotarzes and Artabanus he falls into another blunder
with respect to Bardanes: he circumscribes the limit of his reign to less than one twelvemonth,--the
year when the Secular Games were celebrated which, according to his own account, was the year
800 from the Foundation of Rome, or the year 47 of the Christian Aera ("Ludi Saeculares octingesimo
post Romam conditam ... spectati sunt." An. XI. 11).

Soon after his accession Bardanes, (according to the narrative we have of him in the Annals),
found a rebel in his brother Gotarzes, who waged war against him, defeated him, and, gaining
his kingdom, had him assassinated by a body of Parthians, who "killed him in his very earliest
youth while he was engaged in hunting and not anticipating any harm:" "incautum venationique
intentum interfecere primam intra juventam" (An. XI. 10). All these circumstances are made
to occur in such rapid succession to each other that they occupied only one year, if so much;
for they are all shown as taking place during the consulship of Valerius Asiaticus and Valerius
Messalla.

Now let the reader turn to the Life of Apollonius of Tyana by Philostratus. He will there see
that the Magician of Cappadocia on his arrival in Babylon was told that Bardanes had been reigning
two years and as many months; Apollonius stopped in the palace of the king twenty months; then
he started on a tour to India; he travelled about the Asiatic Peninsula for a considerable
time; next he went on a visit to the Brahmins with whom he staid four months; after that he
returned to Babylon, where he found Bardanes as he had left him, still king and in the enjoyment
of excellent health. It is necessary that I should substantiate this by extracts from Philostratus.
In a conversation with one of the king's courtiers Apollonius asks the question: "What year
that was since Bardanes had recovered his kingdom?" and received the reply that it was "the
third, two months of which they had already reached": [Greek: "poston de dae touto etos tae
anaktaetheisae archae; pritou, ephae, haptometha duo aedae pou maenes"] (I. 28): in another
conversation with Damis Apollonius says that he "is off to India"; that he has been staying
at the court "already a year and four months"; though "the king will not let him take his departure
until the completion of the eighth month": [Greek: age, o Dami, es Indous iomen ... eniautos
gar haemin aedae, kai tettares ... oude anaesei haemas ... ho Basilaeus proteron, ae ton ogdoon
telesai maena]: the biographer then speaking of the visit to the Brahmins, says that Apollonius
spent four months with them": [Greek: maenon tettaron ekei diatripsanti]: and "on his return
to Babylon he found Bardanes as he had left him," that is, on the throne and in the enjoyment
of health: [Greek: es Babylona ... anapleusai para ton Ouardanon, kai tuchontes auton oion
egignoskon] (III. 58).

We have proof positive here that Bardanes sat on the throne of Babylon for at least four years
and a half; quite contrary to the account in the Annals. Philostratus is generally regarded
as a most reliable writer of antiquity; we may be, therefore, tolerably certain, from the look
out given us in the pages of the historian of Lemnos, that Bardanes did not die, as we are
told in the Annals, in his earliest youth by assassination after a short reign of less than
one year, but that he reigned long, lived to a good old age, and died a natural death.

One more example of this kind, which almost seems to bring home the forgery to Bracciolini;
and then we will pass on to other matters (for the present).

Nowhere in his works do I find that Bracciolini makes any reference to Lucian or Strabo, or
even mentions their names. I think if he had read them, he would have known better than to
have spoken of Nineveh being in existence in the reign of the Emperor Claudius, because this
is the reverse of what we are told by Lucian and Strabo. For all that, we hear in the Annals
of troops "along their march capturing the City of Nineveh, that most ancient capital of Assyria":
"Capta in transitu urbis Ninos vetustissima sedes Assyriae" (An. XII. 13). In Lucian's amusing
Dialogue, entitled "Charon," when Mercury points out the tomb of Achilles on Cape Sigaeum and
that of Ajax on the Rhoetaean promontory, Charon wants to see Nineveh, with Troy, Babylon,
Mycenae, and Cleone, the following being the conversation; "I want to point out to you," says
Mercury, "the tomb of Achilles: you see it on the sea? That's Cape Sigaeum in the Troad: and
on the Rhoetaean promontory opposite Ajax is buried. CHAR. Those tombs, O Hermes, are no great
sights. Rather point out to me those renowned cities, of which I have heard below,--Nineveh,
the capital of Sardanapalus, Babylon, Mycenae, Cleone and that famous Troy, on account of which
I remember ferrying across there such numbers that for ten whole years my skiff was never high
and dry and never caught cold," (that being Charon's fun, according to Lucian's conception,
in conveying that all that long time his boat was in the water (hence "catching cold") from
being perpetually used: [Greek: "Thelo soi deixai ton tou Achilleos taphon, horas ton epi tae
thalattae; Sigeion men ekeino to Troikon, antikru de ho Aias tethattai en to Rhoiteio. CHAR.
Ou megaloi, o Hermae, oi taphoi tas poleis de tas episaemous deixon moi aedae, has kato akouomen
taen Ninon taen Sardanapalou, kai Babulona, kai Mukaenas, kai Kleonas, kai taen Ilion autaen,
pollous goun memnaemai diaporthmensas ekeithen, hos deka oloneon maede neolkaesai, maede diapsuxai
to skaphidion."] The reply that then follows of Mercury shows that not a remnant was left of
Nineveh in the very ancient time of Croesus, and that nobody even then knew of its site: "Nineveh,
O Ferryman, is quite destroyed, and not a trace of it is left now, nor can you tell where it
used to be": [Greek: "Hae Minos men, o porthmen, apololen aedae, kai ouden ichnos eti loipon
autaes oud an eipois hopou pot' ae"] (Charon 23). Strabo says the same with respect to the
destruction of Nineveh: "The city of Nineveh was thereupon demolished simultaneously with the
overthrowal of the Syrians: [Greek: Hae men oun Ninos polis aephanisthae parachraema meta taen
ton Suron katalusin"] (XVI. I.3), --though to speak of the inhabitants as "Syrians," at such
a juncture is hardly correct language on the part of Strabo; it should have been "Assyrians,"
if Justin is right in saying that that people only took the name of Syrians after their empire
was at an end: "for thirteen hundred years," says he, "did the Assyrians, who were afterwards
called the Syrians, retain their empire": "Imperium Assyrii, qui postea Syri dicti sunt, mille
trecentis annis tenuere" (Justin I. 2).

Had Bracciolini been acquainted with these things, they would have made such an impression
upon his mind that he could never have forgotten them. But as he wrote ancient history in the
fifteenth century, and did not know what Lucian and Strabo had said of Nineveh, he took as
an authority for his statement a most indifferent historian who flourished towards the close
of the fourth century of our aera, Ammianus Marcellinus; for I know of nobody but Marcellinus,
who makes this statement; nor is there likely to be anybody else, because the statement is
ridiculous. It will be remembered that Bracciolini recovered the work of Ammianus Marcellinus:
it is then reasonable to presume that he had read, if not studied his history. Indeed, there
can be very little doubt that it was Marcellinus who misled him: for when he was setting about
the forgery and importunately soliciting Niccoli to supply him with books for that purpose
in the autumn of 1423, Ammianus Marcellinus was one of these authorities: in the letter dated
the 6th of November that year, he says he was "glad that his friend had done with Marcellinus,
and would be still more glad if he would send him the book": "Gratum est mihi te absolvisse
Marcellinum, idque gratius si me librum miseris" (Ep. II. 7). We may be certain the book, being
"done with" by Niccoli, was sent to him on account of the importance of his having it, for
the carrying out of his undertaking; thus he makes Tacitus commit the same mistake as Marcellinus
committed,--that Nineveh was in existence in the time of the Roman Emperors: "In Adiabena is
the city of Nineveh, which in olden time had possessed an extensive portion of Persia"; "In
Adiabena Ninus EST civitas quae olim Persidis magna possederat" (XXIII. 6). Tacitus lived a
good three hundred years before that historical epitomist of not much note or weight; and could
not, on his authority, have been dragged, like his "discoverer" and student, Bracciolini, into
this monstrous error.

IV. But it is in the estimate of human nature, and the invariable disparagement pervading the
delineation of the character of every individual, in the last six books of the Annals, that
the Italian hand of Bracciolini is unmistakably detected, and the Roman hand of Tacitus not
at all traceable. Shakespeare makes Iago say of himself: "I am nothing if not critical,"--meaning
censorious. Bracciolini might have said the same of himself. He was never so much "at home,"
(by which I mean that he never seemed to have been so completely "happy"), as when lashing
the anti-pope Felix, Filelfo, Valla, George of Trebizond, Guarino of Verona, or some other
great literary rival of whose fame he was jealous; carping at others, whose intellectual attainments
were at all commensurate to his own, and accusing of foul enormities persons who were possessors
of rhetorical merit, as he accused the "Fratres Observantiae," for no other reason that one
can see except that those interlopers in the monastic order (the "Brothers of Observance" being
a new branch of the Franciscans) preached capital sermons.

There is no getting at any insight as to his nature from the biographies of him; they are all
such faint and imperfect sketches: we learn nothing of him from that curiosity of literature,
L'Enfant's astonishing performance, "Poggiana"--in which the pages and the blunders contend
for supremacy in number, and the blunders get it,--nor from that bald, cold business, entitled
"Vita Poggii," which Recanati, flinging aside brilliancy and clinging fast to fidelity in facts
and plainness of speech, prefixed to his edition of Bracciolini's "Historia Florentina," published
at Venice in 1715, and which Muratori, sixteen years after, reprinted at Milan along with the
said "History of Florence, in the 20th volume of his "Rerum Italicarum Scriptores;"--nor from
the Rev. William Shepherd's innocent affair, "The Life of Poggio Bracciolini"; but the deficiencies
of the biographers have been supplied by a true man of genius, Poliziano, who has hit off his
character in a noun substantive and an adjective in the superlative. In his History of the
Pazzi and Salviati Conspiracy against Lorenzo de' Medici,--which plot to overthrow the government
Bracciolini's third son, Jacopo, joined, and was hanged for his pains in front of the first
floor windows of that Prince's palace,--Poliziano says that Jacopo Bracciolini was "specially
remarkable for calumny," in which respect," adds the historian, "he was exactly like his father,
who was a MOST CALUMNIOUS MAN:"--"Ejus praecipua in maledicendo virtus, in qua vel patrem HOMINEM
MALEDICENTISSIMUM referebat" (Politiani Opera, p. 637).

Such being the character of Bracciolini, I may glance aside for a moment to observe that nothing
can be more incongruous than that his statue, which his countrymen originally placed in the
portico of the Church of Santa Maria del Fiore in Florence (because he had praised them in
his history of their city and abused all foreigners), should have been transferred in 1560
by the reigning Duke of Tuscany into the interior of the sacred building and placed among the
figures of the Twelve Apostles, where it still remains, the ungodly "Poggio" forming a grotesque
portion of the saintly group.

Indeed, if faith is to be placed in what Poliziano says, then Bracciolini was, like Thersites
in the Iliad, a "systematic calumniator of kings and princes, while at the same time he must
have indiscriminately inveighed against the characters of private individuals, run down the
productions of all learned men, and, in fact, vilified everybody"; for that is exactly the
estimate formed of him by Poliziano:--"Semper ille aut principes insectari passim, aut in mores
hominum sine ullo discrimine invehi, aut eujusque docti scripta lacessere: nemini parcere"
(Polit. Op. 1. c.).

If this was, really, the distinguishing characteristic of Bracciolini, we have then another
very strong point in evidence that he forged the Annals, for the spirit of detraction stands
forth in the boldest relief on every page of that production. From the beginning to the end
of the last six books (with which we are at present dealing, as we shall hereafter deal separately
with the first six books), there is scarcely such a thing as a good man. Now though we are
all perfectly conscious of our shortcomings and those of our kind, so that we spontaneously
acknowledge the truthfulness of the smart, though not altogether decorous remark of Ovid's,
that "if Jupiter were to strike men with lightning as often as they committed sins, he would
in a short time be without his thunderbolts":--

    "Si quoties peccant homines, sua fulmina mittat
    Jupiter, exiguo tempore inermis erit;"

there is, nevertheless, no necessity for exaggerating those faults with the persistency met
with in the Annals. Scandal without contradiction is admitted of all persons who are either
thought good or who act properly. Every infamous slander is accepted that is cast on the eminent
statesman and philosopher, Seneca (XIII. 20 and 42.--XIV. 52-3). Piso, who has the reputation
of being a good man, is described as a hypocrite, pretending to have virtues (XV. 48). Fenius
Rufus draws no gain nor advantage from his office of superintendent of the stores (XIV. 51),
and is held in general esteem for his course of life (XIV. 51.--XV. 50); but he is described
as immeasurably severe (XV. 58), harsh towards his associates (ib.), and wanting in spirit
(XV. 61). Sylla's innocence is ascribed to despicable pusillanimity and cowardice (XIII. 47).
Corbulo, though he took "the shortest route," and "sped his march day and night without intermission"
(XV. 12), to relieve Poetus when distressed from the approach of Vologeses and the Parthian
army, is said, contrary to these statements, to "have made no great haste in order that he
might gain more praise from bringing relief when the danger had increased" (XV. 10). Because
Flavius, the brother of the German hero, Armin, takes up his abode in Rome, he is accused of
being a "spy." (XI. 16). This is, certainly, the writing of a malicious, altogether spiteful
man,--a man, too, irrational in his calumny,--revelling, in short, in the spirit of detraction.

V. It is, of course, (if there be any truth in the present theory), a thing by no means strange,
but, on the contrary, to be thoroughly expected, when this temper and turn of mind are strongly
enforced by Bracciolini in his Dialogue "De Infelicitate Principum"; his friend, Niccoli, one
of the interlocutors, when asked "why he was more prone to blame than praise," replies that
"there was no difficulty at all in giving an explanation, because he had been taught it by
the experience of advanced age and the antecedents of a long life: he had too often been wrong
in praising men, because he had found them worse than he had thought them; yet he had never
been wrong when he had abused them, for there was such a multitude of rogues amongst men, such
an amount of vices and crimes, such a superabundance of hypocrites, from people preferring
to seem rather than be good, so many who threw such a veil of honesty over their rascalities,
that it was perilous, and akin to falsehood, to bestow laudation on anybody." "'Cur in vituperando
sis quam in laudando proclivior.' 'Hoc facile est ad explicandum,' Nicolaus inquit, 'quod longa
aetas et ante acta vita me docuit. Nam in laudandis hominibus saepius deceptus sum, cum hi
deteriores essent quam existimarem, in vituperandis vero nunquam me fefellit opinio. Tanta
enim inter homines versatur improborum copia,--ita sceleribus omnia inficiuntur, ita hypocritae
superabundant, qui videri quam esse boni malunt,--ita quilibet sua vitia aliquo honesti velamento
tegit, ut periculosum sit et mendacio proximum quempiam laudare'" (Pog. Op. 394). Though these
words are ascribed to his friend Niccoli, they exactly expressed his own sentiments, as may
be seen in the letter to his friend, Bartolommeo Fazio, from which we have already quoted,
where he speaks of himself as being "always excessively averse to the language of praise,"
and further reproves it as "a species of vice":--"non adulandi causa loquor, nam abfuit a me
longissime semper id vitii genus" (Ep. IX. Bartol. Facii Epistol).

In that strongly expressed sentiment of the world being filled with so many knaves that it
was dangerous, and all but destructive of truth, to believe in honesty, we have the keynote
to the whole of the Annals; and the last six books are marked by a universal cynical disbelief
in human honesty; for from the first character, Asiaticus, who is accused of every kind of
corruption and abomination (XI. 2), down to Egnatius, with his perfidy, treachery, avarice,
lust, and superficial virtues (XVI. 32), all are patterns of the vices, few, except the aged
Thrasea, being bright examples of virtue. I have no doubt this description of the general depravity
of Adam's descendants, the dwelling on which was so delectable to the disposition of Bracciolini,
was a very correct portraiture of the human race in the fifteenth century, when, in Italy especially,
and, above all, in Rome, the light from the lamp of Diogenes was, I suspect, very much wanted
to find an honest man.

I. The fifteenth century was the most curious of all ages: it has never been properly depicted,
except on its darker side, indirectly, in the Annals. It is usually regarded as an age of barbarism;
it was not that; it must ever be memorable for splendour of genius and the promotion of letters.
A proof of the esteem in which literary excellence was held is afforded by the conduct of the
Sultan of Turkey, Mahomet II., who deemed a mere ode by Filelfo a sufficient ransom for that
scholar's mother-in-law, Manfredina Doria, and her two daughters. Astronomers were treading
for the first time in the right track after two thousand years, since the days of Pythagoras,
as may be seen by the hypothesis of Domenico Maria, about the variability of the axis of the
globe, and by the labours of Mueller, better known by the Latin name derived from his native
town of Koenigsberg, Regiomontanus, who almost anticipated Copernicus in discovering the true
system of the universe. Few before or since have so excelled in mathematics and mechanics as
Peurbach. Divinity had a profound and subtle exponent in the mild and gentle Thomas a Kempis.
The age nursed the man who first philosophized in politics, Machiavelli. Italy was ablaze,
like the galaxy, with a countless number of brilliant lights that shone in classical lore and
accomplishments. Alberti shewed by his Gothic church dedicated to St. Francis (now the Cathedral
at Rimini), that the genius of architecture was again abroad as much inspired as when Hermogenes
reared the temple of Bacchus at Teos. Chaucer, the morning star of poetry in England, briefly
preceded one greater, and even more learned, Rowley, whose few fragments recovered, as asserted
by the sprightly boy-finder, Chatterton, in a chest in the muniment room of the church of St.
Mary Redcliffe, Bristol, reveal to us what we have unfortunately lost; his Battle of Hastings,
though far away from the power and grandeur of the poetry, recalls, if not the tramp and march
of the verse, attempts at the subdued tone, ease of manner, effect and picturesqueness of thoughts
and figures, along with frequent, rich similes drawn from nature, which meet us at every turn
in the Iliad, then newly brought to Europe, and with which the delighted poet had evidently
saturated his astonished soul, a few of his expressions being close copies and some of his
language a literal translation from Homer. [Endnote 251] All over Europe princes and nobles
signalized themselves in martial achievements and the art of war: some revived memories of
the mightiest: the great hero of antiquity, Cyrus, had not a history more obscured with fable
than the great hero of the Tartars, Tamerlane; the tale of George Castriot, surnamed Scanderbeg,
for his acts of valour and feats of strength, is as mythical as the tale of Ninus: Francis
Sforza, Duke of Milan, could have stood by the side of Pausanias, having as signally defeated
at Mont Olmo the great general Francis Piccinino as the King of Sparta crushed at Plataea the
brilliant chief, Mardonius; the Hungarian sovereigns, John Corvinus Hunniades and his son Matthias
occupied the ground that was held by the Theban princes, Pelopidas and Epaminondas; for the
two Woiwodes of Transylvania kept their country free from the enslavement of the Turk, as the
two Boeotarchs preserved Thebes in independence from the rule of the Lacedaemonians. Never
did Athens produce a general superior to our own gallant and magnanimous Henry the Fifth:--

    "quo justior alter
    Nec pictate fuit, nec bello major et armis."

Still the age, though distinguished for intellect and valour, was degraded by the most monstrous
villainies that were ever perpetrated, and the most detestable characters who ever existed;
and a becoming procreation of such an intellectual and depraved age was that revolting monster
in letters,--the Annals.

The Muses were courted more than the Graces: talents were held in higher esteem than the virtues.
Men were unremitting, indiscriminate worshippers of money; they were not trained in the school
of good morals; and when people, brought up without the pale of the precepts of probity, are
congenitally cursed with a greed for pelf and a legion of evil and rascally proclivities, they
become easily pervious to the promptings of all sorts of knavery.

Profligacy was so wide-spread that it extended to men usually supposed to be most pious and
exemplary in their lives: Bishops, Archbishops, Cardinals and the Pope himself, though celibats
and holders of ecclesiastical dignities, did not arrive at Delphi without touching at Cythera:
indirect evidence is afforded of this by the treatises which physicians, shortly after the
commencement of the next century, wrote on the disease then called "Morbus Gallicus," when
Gaspard Torella wrote his for the purpose of benefiting the manners of the Bishop of Avranches,
Ulrich von Hutten his as a safeguard for the perils that attended the habits of the Cardinal
Archbishop of Mayence, and Peter Pintor his to warn that gay pope, Alexander VI., of the danger
of his ways, the Spanish physician even expressing the kind hope (which may not have been fulfilled)
that the Holy Father would be preserved "morbo foedo et occulto his temporibus affligente":
there is direct evidence of this state of abandonment to vice on the part of consecrated men
from Bracciolini, who, during his excursion to the Baths of Baden in 1416, gave an account
of that favourite watering place of the fifteenth century, where abbots, monks, friars and
priests comported themselves with more licentiousness than the laity, laid aside all thoughts
of religion, and sometimes bathed with women, whose hair they decked with ribbons and wreaths
of flowers: "hic quoque virgines Vestales, vel, ut verius loquar, Florales: hic abbates, monachi,
fratres, sacerdotes majori licentia quam caeteri vivunt, et simul quandoque cum mulieribus
lavantes, et sertis quoque comas ornantes, omni religione abjecta" (Ep. I. 1). Joanna II.,
Queen of Naples, when a Doctor of Laws of Florence was sent to her court on an embassy from
his fellow- citizens, and, seeking a private interview, made a coarse declaration of love,
could look with a pleasant smile upon him, and ask mildly "If that was also in his instructions?"
At the wonderfully numerous assembly that attended at Constance on the 22nd of April, 1418,
on the formal dismissal of the Ecumenical Council by the newly elected Pope, Otto Colonna,
who took the name of Martin V., there were present no fewer (according to one account) than
1,500 courtezans, many of whom heaped up a great mass of money, one accumulating 800 gold sequins,
equivalent now to a little fortune of L16,000, not so much, it appears, from among the 80,000
married laymen, who were Emperors, Kings, Princes, Dukes, Counts and Knights, bankers, shop-keepers,
bakers, tailors, barbers and merry-andrews, as from among the 18,000 celibats, who were the
Pope, the prelates, the priests, the presbyters, the monks and the friars, grey, white and black.

II. As a notable informer in the Annals of the exact spirit of his age, Bracciolini necessarily
places before his reader not a few pictures of the deterioration of moral principles in the
aphrodisiac direction; his book reflects in the most vivid light the strange and very wonderful
depravities of his period, some so huge as to deviate greatly out of the common course of nature.
From time to time the historic and philosophic gravity of the last six books of the Annals
suffers great eclipses by his leaving aside weighty affairs of State to descend into petty
descriptions of the erratic conduct of Messalina, with her extravagant lewdness (XI. 26-8),
Nero, with his abominable pollutions (XVI. 37), and that Emperor's mother, Agrippina, with
her monstrous incest (XIV. 2). These matters, even if true of the ancient Romans in the first
century of our aera, Tacitus, we may be certain, would have avoided as not coming within the
scope of the historian's province, and as being altogether uncongenial to his sublime tone
of elevated sentiments and high-minded refinement. But anyone conversant with the writings
and temper of Bracciolini will know well that such passages, instead of being in any way distasteful,
would be altogether agreeable. To be convinced, one has only to glance at the collection of
anecdotes, styled "Facetiae," at the end of his works, which even a frequenter of the Judge
and Jury Society would consider justly liable to objection, howbeit that a pious gentleman
in holy orders who wrote a Life of Bracciolini, the Reverend William Shepherd, can find words
of palliation for them as sprightly pleasantries. They show us Bracciolini in his merry mood;
they give us a fresh glimpse into the fifteenth century; they may be considered the best jokes
or Joe Millerisms of the fifteenth century, such as the one commencing "Homo e nostris rusticanus,
et haud multum prudens" (Pog. Op. 423), the one that follows entitled "De Vidua accensa libidine
cum paupere" (ibid); and that which begins "Adolescens nobilis et forma insignis" (p. 433).

The taste of Bracciolini which is shown by these "Facetiae," is still more forcibly exhibited
in a letter to Becadelli of Bologna (Ep. II. 40), in which he gloats over a book of indecent
epigrams which his friend had written; he describes it as a "work at once waggish and luxuriating
in voluptuousness," "opus et jocosum et plenum voluptatis," and as "a most sweet book," "liber
est suavissimus." With respect to his own feelings on reading it, he observes, "that he was
delighted beyond measure at the variety of the subjects and the elegance of the poetry; at
the same time he wondered how things so improper and so obscene could be represented by his
friend so gracefully and so neatly, and" he was of opinion that "the many excessive obscenities
were expressed in such a manner that they seemed not only to be depicted but to have been actually
committed; for he could not help thinking that they must be considered as facts, and not as
fictions merely for the sake of entertaining the reader":--"Delectatus sum, mehercule, varietate
rerum et elegantia versuum: simulque admiratus sum res adeo impudicas, adeo ineptas tam venuste,
tam composite a te dici, atque ita multa exprimi turpiuscula, ut non enarrari, sed agi videantur:
neque ficta a te jocandi causa, ut existimo, sed acta aestimari possunt." Such was his extravagant
commendation, and, consequently, his hearty approbation of a most unnatural production, "Hermaphroditus,"
which ultimately received the censure of the author himself, who was ashamed that he had written
it, as shown in the following epigram preserved by Cardinal Quirini in his "Diatriba in Epistolas
Francisci Barbari":--

    "Hic faeces varias Veneris, moresque prophanos,
    Quos natura fugit, me docuisse pudet."

III. We shall now see how accurately a writer in the middle of the last century, the Reverend
Thomas Hunter, in his "Observations on Tacitus" (p. 51), hit off the character of Bracciolini,
all the while that he fancied he was venting objurgations on the staid old Roman: "If he is
anywhere happy in his description, it is in the display of ... luxury refined and high-flavoured
... Never writer had a happier pen at describing wickedness ... Were we to give room to suspicions
... we should say that he might have been ... a party in every lewd scene he represents."

Mr. Hunter proceeds: "Messalina's guilty amours with Silius are described with a gay and festive
air, with that pride of voluptuousness, and feeling taste of pleasure, as show the writer well
versed in court intrigue. The description is too luscious, and may lead to a perpetration of
the crime, rather than an abhorrence of the criminals."

Only one fault is to be found with this criticism, which is both excellent and curious,--excellent,
because remarkable for its simple truthfulness,--curious, because it looks as if Hunter, who
knew nothing about Bracciolini, had the eyes of a cat and could see in the dark;--the fault
is that the writer applies the criticism to one eminently undeserving of its causticity;--because
though we have quoted "If he is," Hunter wrote, "If Tacitus is"; now Tacitus never wrote any
descriptions of the nature commented on by the Vicar of Wrexham; they are not to be found in
any of the works that pass under his name except the Annals; there is this excuse to be found
for Hunter, that, at the time when he wrote, he was compelled to take the majestic Roman Consul
to be the author of the Annals; but though his criticism is not applicable in a single syllable
to Tacitus, it is strictly applicable in every word to Bracciolini, whom he never dreamt of
as the composer of the Annals.

IV. It matters not what a man may attempt in literature, what style he may adopt, or what old
pattern imitate,--he cannot get away from the impulses of his own time, strive he ever so hard:
the tone and colour of his work will be modified by actual history and current politics; his
strongest impressions will be influenced by the deeds that are being transacted and the lives
that are being passed around him; so that however wide, searching and vigorous may be his powers
of observation, thought and intellect, he cannot liberate these from contemporary associations;
any endeavour to do that must end in failure, ending, as it must, in artificial coldness and
unemotional lifelessness. Bracciolini never made the attempt; he gave way to Nature, and never
did his genius shine so brightly, and never was it more prolific, than when dealing with the
diversity required of it by the history embraced in the Annals.

V. I am now about to make some remarks which I am glad to say, will get for this book a place
in the "Index Expurgatorius" in Rome; and which will do a great deal more than that,--considerably
amaze the shade of Bracciolini (supposing that he has a shade), perhaps as much as M. Jourdain
was astonished when told that he had been talking prose all his life.

Every student of the Annals, in order rightly to understand its meaning and properly to appreciate
its greatness, should bear in mind that the Emperors who play a part in it, Claudius and Nero
in the last six books, and Tiberius in the first six, are intended to be the representatives
or personifications of the Church of Rome in the fifteenth century. Hence it is that Claudius,
Nero and Tiberius are depicted as superhuman in monstrosities,--colossal in crime,--perpetrators
of enormities that never yet met, and never will meet, in combination in any single man. Each
is, in fact, a fiend, and not a human being. It was thus only that Bracciolini could show us
in its true light the Church of Rome as it acted in his day. In the language of Wickliffe it
was the "Synagogue of Satan." A mere trifle was it that reprobates in the form of bishops and
priests ordained, consecrated and sacrificed. See the Church at an Oecumenical Council; then
it capped the climax of cruelty and crime; it resorted to demoniacal subterfuge to condemn
good men as heretics and burn them alive, believing that death by fire would inflict the most
exquisitely excruciating tortures; at the Council of Constance it sought to condemn Wickliffe,
by making an inference from some of his principles that he propagated the doctrine,--"God is
obliged to obey the Devil,"--nowhere to be found in the Trialogue, Dialogue, and all the other
works, treatises, and opuscles or small pieces bearing the name of that honoured and most pious
divine: it consigned to the flames those two intimate friends and associates, John Huss and
Jerome of Prague, for holding just and virtuous views about the degradation of the priestly
office, and for nobly and fearlessly inveighing against the corruptions of the pontifical court,
the pomp and pride of prelates, and the dissipated habits and abuses of the clergy.

When we read in the Annals of men, who, in spite of their nobility, innocence and virtues,
were put to death by the sword of the executioner or the poisoned bowl, we must not think that
we are reading of real Romans who thus actually suffered: the whole is a fabrication placing
before us fictitious pictures, meant to be life-like, of what the DOMINATING POWER CAN DO IN
SOCIETY: they are not pictures intended to show with truthfulness monstrosities positively
done by Emperors of Rome in the first century: they are pictures that reflect with fidelity
the atrocities that stained the Church of Rome in the beginning of the fifteenth century.

Those were the closing days of the ancient period of the most abominable of all the Inquisitions,
that of Spain, before the establishment by Ferdinand and Isabella in 1481 of the modern Inquisition
in the Iberian Peninsula: that terrible jurisdiction extended to everybody, dead as well as
living, absent as well as present, princes and subjects, rich and poor,--all were liable alike
on the bare suspicion of such an insignificant matter as heresy, to corporal punishment, pecuniary
fines, confiscation of property, and loss of life, by being burnt at the stake, or,--as occurred
to Savonarola, towards the close of the century,--first strangled by the hangman, and then
committed to the flames. Only the Nero of the last part of the Annals, or the Tiberius of the
first six books of that work, can properly stand forth, in his persecuting spirit, as the counterpart
of the Dominican, John de Torquemada, who, in the performance of his duty, as the Inquisitor
General in Spain, proceeded against upwards of 100,000 persons, 6,000 of whom he condemned
to the flames.

VI. So far, then, from being surprised with Professor Schildius (Professor of History and Greek,
and afterwards of Hebrew in the University of Bremen at the commencement of the seventeenth
century), and induced to doubt with him, the veraciousness of the Annals, I should have been
very much astonished indeed, and, certainly, called in question its fidelity as representing
the spirit of the fifteenth century, if it had not recorded (to borrow the language of Schildius)
"a number of the most honourable and innocent men, the prides and ornaments of the State, coming
to an ignominious end, and for no other crime, forsooth, than that which we call treason-felony":
"Quod si non omnium judiciis superior esset Cornelius Tacitus, laboraret Annalium fides, tot
nobilissimos et innocuos viros, tot decora et ornamenta Civitatis, indignissimo fine cecidisse
crederemus, idque non aliud hercle ob crimen, quam illum, quem diximus, obtentuin laesae majestatis"
(Schildi Exercitationes in C. Taciti Annal: XV. p. 29). Substitute for "treason felony" "heresy,"
and we have the strictest truth with regard to the unutterable ferocity of the Church of Rome
in the fifteenth century.

VII. Had any man then living been bold enough to tell the world of the Church of Rome's ferocity
in primitive terms, he must have been particularly desirous of being roasted alive: had he
even so represented it as to render himself comprehensible by the most quick-witted, he must
still have had the martyr's liking for instruments of torture and the blazing faggot: Bracciolini,
whom nature had not gifted with the taste of Huss and Jerome of Prague, was so conscious of
the perilous position in which he placed himself by undertaking a composition of this description,
that he communicated his alarm to Niccoli about the care he must take as to the expression
of his views lest he should give offence to princes, in that memorable letter, from which I
have already quoted, dated Rome, October 8, 1423, in which he indirectly informed his friend
that he had commenced his forgery of the Annals, by confessing that he was engaged on a certain
work (or, as he puts it, "certain tiny occupations" ("occupatiunculae quaedam") in the style
of Lord Byron, who would speak meanly of any of his marvellous poems, Childe Harold or Manfred,
as "a thing"). "Besides," said he, "there are certain tiny occupations in which I am engaged,
which do not so much impede me in themselves, as the way in which I tarry over them; for it
is necessary that I should be on my guard with respect to the inclinations of princes, that
their susceptibilities be not offended, as they are much more ready to vent their rage than
to extend their forgiveness if anything be done amiss";--he then ended by making an observation
which we have already noticed to the effect that beginnings were always difficult, especially
when an attempt was made to imitate the ancients: "Sunt praeterea occupatiuculae quaedam, in
quibus versor, quae non tantum ipsae me impediunt, quantum earum expectatio. Oportet enim paratum
esse etiam ad nutum, ne offiendatur religio principum, quorum indignatio promptior est, quam
remissio, si quid omittatur. (Ep. II. 5). Therefore, Bracciolini, in the most strained detortions
from literal meaning,--in the darkest nimbus of far-fetched elaboration of mystical allegory,
--placed before us the unparalleled cruelty of the Church of Rome in the tiger-like thirst
for blood of the Tiberius and the Nero of the Annals.

VIII. In the same manner as we have in the Annals a true and life- like picture of the savage
and ravenous fierceness of the Church of Rome in the fifteenth century, so we have the likenesses,
drawn, too, with the spirit and vigour of life about them, of the persons who flourished at
that period as Princes, Ministers, and their agents and servants, though the likenesses may
have been reproduced with some partial poetical exaggeration with regard to the peculiar characters,
vices and singular debasement of individuals: this, however, is very certain; people, then,
were altogether abnormal. We have already seen how historians tell us that Cardinal Beaufort
by his intrigues and those of the Queen of Henry IV. hastened the ruin and untimely fate of
Humphry, Duke of Gloucester. Kings so troubled their subjects by their tyranny and excesses,
they were deposed, imprisoned, or put to death: in England Richard II. was stripped of his
kingdom; in Bohemia Wenceslaus was twice thrown into prison; in Germany, Frederick, Duke of
Brunswick, was murdered only two days after he had been elected Emperor; and in France, Jean
Sans Peur, Duke of Burgundy, had his life taken on the bridge of Montereau. In the East things
fared even worse: sovereigns trampled on sovereigns: Tamerlane, the victor, treated with contumely
the once proud conqueror, the vanquished Bayazid, Sultan of Turkey, used his body as a footstool
or ladder by which to mount his horse; forced him to lie on the ground while he fed and to
pick up the crumbs that fell from his table, and finally shut him up in an iron cage, where
he died of a broken heart: if these things be false, as they may be, or exaggerated, as unquestionably
they were, yet they point to the spirit of the age, in the simple fact of their having been
recounted, and in the still more remarkable fact of their having been believed.

There were no such emperors and persons in high places during the opening period of the Christian
aera; or Tacitus in his "History" gives us a very wrong account of them; his views of them
are, if not favourable, lenient or apologetic: they do not seem to have had the vices and faults
of most men; Tacitus has otherwise successfully thrown a veil over them. Were the whole truth
known, it might be found that there is a shameful exaggeration of the vices of Roman Emperors:
this looks most probable when we consider the significant reflections made about Princes in
one of his miscellaneous productions, by the historian, David Hume,--not the David Hume, minor,
who, living a long time among the English, and becoming fascinated with their ways, manners,
customs and civilization, mooted the union of England and Scotland, more than a hundred years
before the great event came off, in that famous historical essay printed in London in 1605
and entitled "De Unione Insulae Britanniae Tractatus;" nor David Hume minimus, who wrote the
"History of the Houses of Douglas and Angus" but the David Hume, major, who wrote the "History
of England"--that "there are, perhaps, and have been for two centuries nearly two hundred absolute
princes, great and small in Europe; and allowing twenty years to each reign, we may suppose
that there have been in the whole two thousand monarchs, or 'tyrants,' as the Greeks would
have called them, yet of these there has not been one, not even Philip of Spain, so bad as
Tiberius, Caligula, Nero or Domitian, who were four in twelve among the Roman Emperors." When
we find David Hume thus putting the matter, in his Essay on "Civil Liberty," it makes us at
once see how highly unlikely it is that all the badness of human nature should have been concentrated
in a few individuals who lived at a particular period and in a particular country, those individuals
being Emperors, that particular period the commencement of the Christian aera and that particular
country ancient Rome. Somewhere or other there must have been a great deal of maligning; nor
is it difficult to discover who the maligner was as far as the characters in the Annals are
concerned.

IX. No one will accuse Tacitus of disparaging Princes and persons in high places; but everybody
will admit, who is acquainted with the productions of Bracciolini, that he speaks trumpet-tongued
of their delinquencies. When in his Dialogue, "De Infelicitate Principum," an attempt is made
by Cosmo de' Medici to uphold some of them as "worthy of all praise and commendation for their
learning and estimable qualities," the passage follows, as the reply of Niccoli (already quoted),
of the hypocrisy and rascality of all men, consequently, of the hypocrisy and rascality of
kings, ministers and their agents and servants. Nay, more: Cosmo de' Medici is made to express
his astonishment at the spirit of detraction in Niccoli, but is not surprised as he lashes
private individuals, to find him bitterly inveighing against princes, being ever ready and
fluent in his abuse of the latter, even when they do no harm, and cannot be reproached for
their lives: Cosmo de' Medici is, therefore, of opinion that exceptions ought to be made in
their favour, and wants to know why Niccoli should be so strongly given to vituperate them:--"Tum,
Cosmus, graviter ut assolet, "Facillime," inquit, "Nicolae, (qui mos tuus est), laberis ad
detrahendum. Equidem minime miror, si quando es in privatos dicatior, cum in ipsos principes
tam facile inveharis, et tamen nullius injuria, aut vitae contumelia facit, ut tam sis promptus,
aut copiosus in eorum objurgationem. Novi nonnullos qui abs te excipi deberent ab reliquorum
caterva viri docti, egregii, omnique laude et commendatione dignissimi. Unde mecum saepius
cogitans addubitare cogor quaenam sit potissimum causa, cur in vituperando sis quam, &c." (Pog.
Op. p. 394)

We who live in these days and know how exemplary, as a rule, for piety and excellent conduct,
are Popes, Cardinals, Bishops and, in fact, the clergy in the Church of Rome, as well as the
dignitaries and pastors in all the other ecclesiastical establishments of Europe, and who,
at the same time, honour and admire crowned heads and princes, ministers and great men for
their position and virtues, cannot realize to ourselves how there ever could have been such
hatefully contemptible personages in the sovereign and loftiest places as are depicted in the
Annals, page after page, nor can we bring ourselves to believe that there ever existed such
a bevy of brilliant malefactors, except in the judgment and fancy of one who did not shine
among the most amiable of mankind as he, certainly, shone among the most able.

I. If there be one man more than another who might easily fall into the error of supposing
that an ancient Roman could take in the most capricious and arbitrary way any name he pleased,
Flavius, or Julius, or Pius, it would be a man like Bracciolini, who, as Secretary of the Popes
for forty years, was in the habit of seeing every now and then, and that, too, at very brief
intervals, a Cardinal, on being raised to the dignity of the Papacy, take any name from whim
or fancy, and, sometimes a very queer name, too, as a Cossa taking the name of John, or a Colonna
the name of Martin. This being admitted, it seems quite consistent that Bracciolini should
speak of Augustus Caesar, before he was Emperor, as "Octavianus." When we read in the XIIIth
book of the Annals (6), "imperatori" (Bracciolini's word for "General," Tacitus would have
written "duci"), "quantum ad robur deesse, cum octavo decimo aetatis anno Cneius Pompeius,
nono decimo Caesar OCTAVIANUS civilia bella sustinuerint, we may be assured that we are reading
words which were not written by Tacitus, and, as for the matter of that, any Roman, because
he would have known that Augustus Caesar, before he was called Augustus, did not bear and never
could have borne, the name of Octavianus: the son of Octavius, he was himself Octavius, not
Octavianus, as his sister was Octavia (so Pliny the Elder writes, "Marcellus Octavia" not Octaviana,
"sorore Augusti genitus" N.H. XIX. 6, 1.) Shakespeare knew better than Bracciolini the name
of Augustus, before he was Emperor, by making Antony say to him:

    "And now, Octavius,
    Listen great things."
    Julius Caesar, Act IV. sc. 1.

Whenever we find a Roman's name ending in "ianus," we know one of three things: either that
he had taken his name from his wife who was an heiress, as Domitianus; or that he was the eldest
son of a man who had taken his mother's name, which he was himself allowed to assume by the
marriage contract, as Titus Vespasianus; or, when we find a repetition of the same name ending
in "ius" and "ianus," as "Aemilius Aemilianus," or in "ianus" and "ius" as "Licinianus Licinius,"
we know that the individual was of the Aemilian or Licinian family, and had married the heiress
of another great Roman house. This was the rule among that ancient people, unless I have been
misled by Father Hardouin (See Harduinus. Praef. ad Histor. August. ex Nummis Antiq. Opera
Sel. p. 683). The termination, then, "ianus," always indicated marriage with an heiress, just
as such a marriage among ourselves is heraldically marked by the husband and wife's coats of
arms being placed alongside of each other; and just as we never depart from this custom in
escutcheons, so the Romans never varied their rule with respect to such names; then as Augustus
Caesar neither married an heiress, nor was the eldest son of a man who had formed such a marriage;
and as this custom of changing the termination of the name was familiar to all the Romans,--if
not to every ignorant or ill-bred man, at least, to every well-informed, well-bred man among
them,--it follows as clearly, as that 2 and 2 make 4, that Tacitus, the high-born gentleman
and consul, could never have written Caesar Octavianus.

I am exceedingly sorry to have made these remarks for the sake of the writers of classical
biographies, whose reputation is at stake, for one and all, from Lempriere to Dr. William Smith,
mislead those who consult their pages as to the names of Augustus, among which figures "Octavianus";
this is their own fault; they will persist in regarding the Annals as the best and most authentic
history we have of the ancient Romans during the period embraced in its records; they reject
all other testimony, when all other testimony is far more reliable.

I also grieve very much for the authorities of the British Museum on account of the inscription
they have had graved in the Roman Gallery of Antiquities under the bust numbered 3 which represents
Augustus in his youth,--"Octavianus Caesar Augustus"; I have been compelled to point out this
error in examining a work given out as the production of the ancient Roman, Caius Cornelius
Tacitus, when it is the glaring forgery of a bungling mediaeval European "grammaticus," that
bungling mediaeval European "grammaticus" being (as I am showing, and the reader is, I trust,
becoming more and more convinced as he proceeds) no other than Poggio Bracciolini.

II. I am also extremely sorry for Dr. Adam Clarke that his accuracy in research and his extensive
and extraordinary learning, which have hitherto been indisputable, should be now called in
question; but they are jeoparded: in his valuable Commentary on the Bible, he says in one of
his notes to the Acts of the Apostles (Ch. XXIV. v. 10): "Cumanus and Felix were, for a time,
joint governors of Judaea; but, after the condemnation of Cumanus, the government fell entirely
into the hands of Felix";--this is not history. In the first place, Cumanus and Felix were
never joint governors of Judaea; in the second place, when Cumanus was punished, his government
did not "fall" to Felix; Felix succeeded, for Felix was appointed to it. Dr. Clarke could have
made this statement on no other authority than that of Bracciolini, who in the 54th chapter
of the XIIth book of the Annals, says that Judaea was under the government of Cumanus conjointly
with Felix, the province being so divided that Cumanus was governor of Galilee and Felix of
Samaria:--"Ventidio Cumano, cui pars provinciae habebatur: ita divisis, ut huic Galilaeorum
natio; Felici Samaritae parerent" (An. XII. 54). Justus Lipsius was rather startled at the
number of mistakes he found in those words: in addition to Felix and Cumanus never being joint
governors, Judaea was not a divided province, and Cumanus was, certainly, governor over the
Samaritans, as may be seen by reference to Josephus, who can always be relied upon, for what
Julius Caesar Scaliger, one of the most learned and famous men of the sixteenth century, said
of him everybody knows, from Whiston (quoting it from Bishop Porteus), placing it at the commencement
of his admirable popular translation of the Hebrew historian, that "he deserved more credit
than all the Greek and Roman writers put together." Well, Josephus, who "deserved more credit
than all the Greek and Roman writers put together," says that a disturbance broke out between
the Jews and the Samaritans, whereupon "the former burnt and plundered the villages of the
latter, and when what had been done reached Cumanus, he armed the Samaritans and marched against
the Jews," clearly showing that by "arming the Samaritans," he was governor of Samaria, and
not Felix:--[Greek: Komas tinas ton Samareon empraesantes diarpazousi. Koumanos de, taes praxeos
eis auton aphikomenaes ... tous Samareitas kathoplisas, exaelthen epi tous Ioudaious] (Antiq.
Jud. XX. 6). Having said this in his "Antiquities of the Jews", Josephus more distinctly says
in his "Wars of the Jews" that the Emperor Claudius banished Cumanus, "after which he sent
Felix, the brother of Pallas, to be the governor of Judaea, Galilee, Samaria and Peraea": [Greek:
meta tauta Ioudaias men epitropon Phaelika ton Pallantos adelphon ekpempei, taes te Galilaias
kai Samareias kai Peraias] (De Bello Jud. II. 12. 8).

Cardinal Baronius, in one of the forty folio volumes of his "Annales Ecclesiastici" (A.C. 50.
Tom I. p. 355), has fallen exactly into the same mistake as Dr. Adam Clarke, and, from the
very same cause, placing implicit confidence in what is stated in the Annals. He says that
"the same Josephus is, nevertheless, guilty of an evident mistake when he asserts that Cumanus
was convicted in Rome, and that Claudius thence sent to Judaea the brother of his freedman
Pallas,--Felix; for Felix was sent along with Cumanus to that province, which was so divided
between them, that Felix ruled Samaria, but Cumanus the remainder of the province":--"Sed patentis
erroris nihilominus idem Josephus arguitur, dum ait esse damnatum Romae Cumanum ac inde Claudium
Felicem Pallantis liberti Claudii Augusti germanum missum esse in Judaeam. Nam Felix simul
cum Cumano in eam provinciam missus est, sic ea inter eos divisa, ut Felix Samariam administraret,
Cumanus vero reliquam provinciae partem."

Another Cardinal, Noris, who has the credit of being one of the most accurate and learned antiquaries,
chronologists and historians of his age (the close of the seventeenth century), for Zedler
says of him (sub vocibus, "Heinrich Noris"), that he was "einer der gelehrtesten Leute seiner
Zeit, ein vollkommener Antiquarius, Chronologus und Historicus," maintains, in his Commentary
on the Two Monumental Stones erected at Pisa in honour of the two grandsons of the Emperor
Augustus, ("Cenotaphia Pisana",) that Cardinal Baronius was wrong when he made that statement
on the authority of the Jewish historian, because "Josephus has nowhere said that Felix was
sent from Rome as the successor of Cumanus, but on the contrary, as may be clearly gathered
from the 11th," (it should be the 12th) "chapter of his second book of the war, for that immediately
after he has spoken of the condemnation of Cumanus by the Emperor Claudius, he says that that
Emperor 'sent Felix, the brother of Pallas, to the Jews, to administer their country along
with Samaria and Galilee, while he transferred Agrippa from Chalcis to a larger government,
giving him the province also which had been Felix's': now that was Trachonitis, Bethanea and
Gaulanitis: therefore Felix, before the condemnation of Cumanus, was placed over Judaea, having
been the governor, according to Josephus, of that part of Galilee which lay between the river
Jordan and the hills of Coelesyria and Philadelphia; and, consequently, he did not go to Judaea
from Rome, as that learned man wrongly ascribes to Josephus, but from Galilee beyond the Jordan":--"Verum
Josephus nusquam dixit Felicem Roma missum Cumano successorem, immo aperte ex lib. 2. belli
cap. 11 oppositum colligitur; siquidem cum dixisset Cumanum Romae damnatum a Claudio Imperatore,
statim ait:--'Post haec Felicem Pallantis fratrem misit ad Judaeos, qui eorum provinciam cum
Samaria et Galilaea curaret. Agrippam vero de Chalcide in regnum majus transtulit, tradens
ei illam quoque provinciam, quae Felicis fuisset.' Erat autem ista Trachonitis, Bethanea, Gaulanitis.
Igitur Felix, antequam damnato Cumano, Judaeae imponeretur, Galilaeam transamnanam quae Jordane
ac montibus Coelesyriae, ac Philadelphiae includitur, auctore Josepho, regebat; ac proinde
in Judaeam non ex Urbe, ut minus recte vir eruditus Josepho imponit, sed ex Galilaea transamnana
advenit." (Cenotaphia Pisana. Diss. sec. p. 333 ed. Ven. 1681.)

Of course, if Josephus wrote thus, the whole matter is settled; Felix was governor with Cumanus,
for the province over which he had ruled, Peraea, or Galilee to the eastward of the Jordan,
was transferred to Agrippa: but "litera scripta manet:" on turning to Josephus it is found
that it was Philip, and not Felix, who held the country that was given to Agrippa:--"And he"
(the Emperor Claudius) "transfers Agrippa from Chalcis to a larger government, by giving him
the tetrachy that had been PHILIP'S":--[Greek: ek de taes Chalkidos Agrippan ein meizona Basileian
metatithaesi, dous auto taen te PHILIPPOI genomenaen tetrarchian.] (De Bello Jud. II. 12).
For such dishonesty in attempting to carry his point against another Eminence Cardinal Noris
ought to have blushed as scarlet as his stockings.

Ernesti, quite puzzled at the singular statement that a Roman province had two governors, is
of opinion that the error was occasioned by statements to be found in the New Testament: "There
is," he says, "the additional testimony of St. Luke, or rather St. Paul, who says that Felix
was many years set over the Jews, in the third or fourth year after Cumanus had been condemned":
"Accedit Lucae auctoritas, vel potius Pauli, qui Felicem multos annos Judaeis praefuisse dicit,
anno, postquam Cumanus damnatus est, tertio aut quarto." It is just possible that the passage
about Felix being "many years a judge unto that nation," which occurs in the Acts of the Apostles
(c. XXIV. v. 10), was what actually misled Bracciolini; the more so, as when he was in this
country, he discharged what Dean Hook called "the heavenly occupations of a parish priest"
(Life of Becket, p. 359), and for the very reason that he was a consecrated man he must have
taken a much greater interest and placed far more trust in St. Paul, than Tacitus or any other
heathen among the ancient Romans was likely to have done; but an error so extraordinary about
the contemporary government of his country could barely have been committed by such an eminent
public man and politician as Tacitus: this is the reason why Cardinal Baronius convicted Josephus
of "an evident mistake," for as he properly observed parenthetically in the passage we have
quoted, that "we ought to attach faith to Tacitus, whom, certainly, any learned man would clearly
prefer to Josephus in matters especially which appertain to Roman magistracies": "si Tacito
fidem praebemus, quem certe, in his praesertim quae ad Romanos pertinent magistratus, quivis
eruditus Josepho facile anteferat" (l.c.). But as Tacitus did not write the Annals, Josephus
is to be preferred to Bracciolini; when, too, it is just the kind of mistake which a writer
of the XVth century, as Bracciolini, however learned and careful he might be, would be likely
to fall into, from the testimony of St. Paul conflicting with that of Josephus.

