

   "What do we see? Each man a space,
   Of some few yards before his face.
   Can that the whole wide plan explain?
   Ah no! Consider it again."

But is it true, as a matter of fact, that physical science throws discredit upon these three
propositions? Let us examine this question a little. I must of necessity be brief in the limits
to which I am here confined, and I must use the plainest language, for I am writing not for
the school but for the general reader. Brevity and plainness of speech do not, however, necessarily
imply superficiality, which, in truth, is not unfrequently veiled by a prolix parade of pompous
technicalities.

First, then, as to causation. The shepherd in the play, when asked by Touchstone, "Hast any
philosophy in thee?" replies, "No more but that I know that the property of rain is to wet,
and fire to burn; that good pasture makes fat sheep: and that a great cause of the night is
lack of the sun," and upon the strength of this knowledge is pronounced by the clown to be
"a natural philosopher." Well, is not in truth the "science" of the mere physicist, however
accomplished, in pari materia with that of honest Corin? He observes certain sequences of facts,
certain antecedents and consequents, but of the nexus between them he knows no more than the
most ignorant and foolish of peasants. He talks, indeed, of the laws of Nature, but the expression,
convenient as it is in some respects, and true as it is in a sense--and that the highest--is
extremely likely to mislead, as he uses it ordinarily. What he calls a law of Nature is only
an induction from observed phenomena, a formula which serves compendiously to express them.
We read in Bacci's "Life of St. Philip Neri" that the Saint drew men to the service of God
by such a subtle irresistible influence as caused those who watched him to cry out in amazement,
"Father Philip draws souls, as the magnet draws iron." The most accomplished master of natural
science is as little competent to explain the physical attraction as he is to explain the spiritual.
He cannot get behind the fact, and if you press him for the reason of it--if you ask him why
the magnet draws iron--the only reason he has to give you is, "Because it does." Let us now
glance at the last of the propositions supposed to be condemned by the researches of the physicists--namely,
that this Personal Will has sometimes interfered by miracles with the order of the universe.
Now, here, as I intimated in an earlier portion of this article, I find myself at variance
with the author of "Natural Religion" upon a question, and a very important question, of terminology.
I do not regard the supernatural as an interference with, or violation of, the order of the
universe. I adopt, unreservedly, the doctrine that "nothing is that errs from law." The phenomena
which we call supernatural and those which we call natural, I view as alike the expression
of the Divine Will: a Will which acts not capriciously, nor, as the phrase is, arbitrarily,
but by law, "attingens a fine usque ad finem, fortiter suaviterque disponens omnia." And so
the theologians identify the Divine Will with the Divine Reason. Thus St. Augustine, "Lex æterna
est ratio divina vel voluntas Dei,"[48] and St. Thomas Aquinas, "Lex æterna summa ratio in
Deo existens."[49] It is by virtue of this law that the sick are healed, whether by the prayer
of faith or the prescription of a physician, by the touch of a relic or by a shock from a galvanic
battery; that the Saint draws souls and that the magnet draws iron. The most ordinary so-called
"operations of Nature" may be truly described in the words of St. Gregory as God's daily miracles;[50]
and those events, commonly denominated miraculous, of which we read in the Sacred Scriptures,
in the Lives of the Saints, and elsewhere, may as truly be called natural, using the word in
what, as I just now observed, Bishop Butler notes as its only distinct meaning--namely, stated,
fixed, or settled;[51] for they are the normal manifestations of the order of Grace--an order
external to us, invisible, inaccessible to our senses and reasonings, but truly existing and
governed by laws, which, like the laws of the physical and the intellectual order, are ordained
by the Supreme Lawgiver. Once purge the mind of anthropomorphic conceptions as to the Divine
Government, and the notion of any essential opposition between the natural and the supernatural
disappears. Sanctity, which means likeness to God, a partaking of the Divine nature, is as
truly a force as light or heat, and enters as truly into the great order of the universe. There
is a passage in M. Renan's "Vie de Jésus" worth citing in this connection. "La nature lui obéit,"
he writes; "mais elle obéit aussi à quiconque croit et prie; la foi peut tout. Il faut se rappeler
que nulle idée des lois de la nature ne venait, dans son esprit ni dans celui de ses auditeurs,
marquer la limite de l'impossible.... Ces mots de 'surhumain' et de 'surnaturel,' empruntés
à notre théologie mesquine, n'avaient pas de sens dans la haute conscience religieuse de Jésus.
Pour lui, la nature et le développement de l'humanité n'étaient pas des règnes limités hors
de Dieu, de chétives réalités assujetties aux lois d'un empirisme désesperant. Il n'y avait
pas pour lui de surnaturel, car il n'y avait pas pour lui de nature. Ivre de l'amour infini,
il oubliait la lourde chaîne qui tient l'esprit captif; il franchissait d'un bond l'abîme,
infranchissable pour la plupart, que la médiocrité des facultés humaines trace entre l'homme
et Dieu."[52] These words seem to me to express a great truth. The religious mind conceives
of the natural, not as opposed to the supernatural, but as an outlying province of it; of the
economy of the physical world as the complement of the economy of Grace. And to those who thus
think, the great objection urged by so many philosophers, from Spinoza downwards--not to go
further back--that miracles, as the violation of an unchangeable order, make God contradict
himself, and so are unworthy of being attributed to the All-Wise, is without meaning. The most
stupendous incident in the "Acta Sanctorum" is, as I deem, not less the manifestation of law
than is the fall of a sparrow.[53] The budding of a rose and the Resurrection of Jesus Christ
are equally the effect of the One Motive Force, which is the cause of all phenomena, of the
Volition of the Maker, Nourisher, Guardian, Governor, Worker, Perfecter of all. Once admit
what is involved in the very idea of God as it exists in Catholic theology--as it is set forth,
for example, in the treatise of St. Thomas Aquinas "De Deo"--and the notion of miracles as
abnormal, as infractions of order, as violations of law, will be seen to be utterly erroneous.

And now one word as to the bearing of physical science upon the doctrine of the Divine goodness[54]--the
second of the theological positions which, as we have seen, the author of "Natural Religion"
assumes to be discredited by physical science. No doubt he had in his mind what has been so
strongly stated by the late Mr. Mill: "Not even on the most distorted and contracted theory
of good, which ever was framed by religious or philosophical fanaticism, can the government
of Nature be made to resemble the work of a being at once good and omnipotent."[55] Now there
can be no question that physical nature gives the lie to that shallow optimism, which prates
of the best of all conceivable worlds, and hardly consents to recognize evil, save as "a lower
form of good;" unquestionably recent researches of physicists have brought out with quite startling
clearness what St. Paul calls the subjection of the creature to vanity. Ruin, waste, decay
are written upon every feature of the natural order. All that is joyful in it is based on suffering;
all that lives, on death; every thrill of pleasure which we receive from the outward world
is the outcome of inconceivable agonies during incalculable periods of time. But how does this
discredit the teaching of theology as to God's goodness? Theology recognizes, and recognizes
far more fully than the mere physicist, the abounding misery that is in the world, the terribleness
of that "unutterable curse which hangs upon mankind," for it sees not only what he sees, but
what is infinitely sadder and more appalling, the vision of moral evil presented by the heart
and conscience of man, by every page in the history of the individual and of the race. It was
not reserved for professors of physical science in the nineteenth century to bring to light
the fact that "the world is out of joint," and thereby to discredit the theological view of
the universe. Theology knows only too well that life is "a dread machinery of sin and sorrow."
It is the very existence of the vast aboriginal calamity, whatever it may have been, in which
the human race, the whole creation, is involved, that forms the ground for the need of the
revelation which Christianity professes to bring. If there were no evil, there would be no
need of a deliverance from evil. Of course, why evil has been suffered to arise, why it is
suffered to exist, by the Perfect Being, of whom it is truly said that He is God, because he
is the highest Good, we know not, and no search will make us know. All we know is that it is
not from Him, of whom, and for whom, and by whom, are all things; "because it has no substance
of its own, but is only the defect, excess, perversion, or corruption of that which has substance."
The existence of evil is a mystery--one of the countless mysteries surrounding human life--which,
after the best use of reason, must be put aside as beyond reason. But it is also a fact, and
a fact which is so far from discrediting the theological view of the universe, that it is a
primary and necessary element of that view.

VI.

Thus much as to physical science and the propositions in which the author of "Natural Religion"
supposes the theological view of the universe to be summed up. But, as he notes, the case urged
in the present day against Christianity does not rest merely upon physical science, properly
so called; but upon the extension of its methods to the whole domain of knowledge (p. 7), the
practical effect being the reduction of religion to superstition, of anthropology to physiology,
of metaphysics to physics, of ethics to the result of temperament or the promptings of self-interest,
of man's personality to the summation of a series of dynamic conditions of particles of matter.
I shall proceed to state the case, as I often hear it stated, and I shall put it in the strongest
way I can, and to indicate the answer which, at all events, has satisfied one mind, after long
and patient consideration, and in spite of strong contrary prepossessions. And this evidently
has the most direct bearing on my theme. If Christianity be irrational, its claims to the world's
future may at once be dismissed. But if, as I very strongly hold, the achievements of the modern
mind, whether in the physical sciences, in psychology, in history, in exegetical criticism,
have not in the least discredited Christianity, as rightly understood, here is a fact which
is a most important factor in determining our judgment as to the religious prospect of mankind.
What I have to say on this grave question I must reserve for the Second Part of this article.
I end the First Part with one observation. It seems to me that the issue before the world is
between Christianity and a more or less sublimated form of Materialism--not necessarily Atheistic,
nay, sometimes approximating to "faint possible Theism"--which is most aptly termed Naturalism;
a system which rejects as antiquated the ideas of final causes, of Providence, of the soul
and its immortality; which allows of no other realities than those of the physical order, and
makes of Nature man's highest ideal: and this issue is not in the least affected by decking
out Naturalism in some borrowed garments of Spiritualism, and calling it "Natural Christianity."

   W. S. LILLY.

FOOTNOTES:

[26] "La Génie des Religions," l. i. c. i.

[27] Ibid., c. iv.

[28] The author of "Natural Religion" thinks it mistaken in so declaring itself. "Its invectives
against God and against Religion do not prove that it is atheistic, but only that it thinks
itself so. And why does it think itself so? Because God and Religion are identified in its
view with the Catholic Church; and the Catholic Church is a thing so very redoubtable that
we need scarcely inquire why it is passionately hated and feared" (p. 37). But this is an error.
God and Religion are not identified, in the view of the Revolution, with the Catholic Church.
It will be evident to anyone who will read its accredited organs that it is as implacably hostile
to religious Protestantism as to Catholicism. Perhaps I may be allowed to refer, on this subject,
to some remarks of my own in an article entitled "Free Thought--French and English," published
in this REVIEW, in February last, p. 241.

[29] See his Preface to the Second Edition.

[30] Warburton, a shrewd observer enough, expressed the same view a hundred years ago, with
characteristic truculence:--"Mathematicians--I do not mean the inventors and geniuses amongst
them, whom I honour, but the Demonstrators of others' inventions, who are ten times duller
and prouder than a damned poet--have a strange aversion to everything that smacks of religion."--Letters
to Hurd, xix.

[31] Preface to Second Edition, p. vii.

[32] Ibid., p. v.

[33] Summa, 1^ma 2^de qu. 60, art. 3.

[34] "Grammar of Assent," p. 389. 5th ed.

This is widely different from the nude proposition that "we live by admiration."

[36] See also p. 127.

[37] A good deal of information about Theophilanthropy and the Theophilanthropists, in an undigested
and, indeed, chaotic state, will be found in Grégoire's "Histoire des Sectes Religieuses," vol. i.

[38] The Theophilanthropists were most anxious that the object of their worship should not
be supposed to be the Christian God. Thus in one of their hymns their Deity is invoked as follows:--

"Non, tu n'es pas le Dieu dont le prêtre est l'apôtre, Tu n'as point par la Bible enseigné
les humains."

[39] The author of "Natural Religion" says, Talleyrand; I do not know on what authority. Grégoire
writes:--"Au Directoire même on le raillait sur son zèle thêophilantropique. Un de ses collègues,
dit-on, lui proposait de se faire pendre et de ressusciter le troisième jour, comme l'infaillible
moyen de faire triompher sa secte, et Carnot lui décoche dans son Mémoire des épigrammes sanglantes
à ce sujet."--Histoire des Sectes Religieuses, vol. I. p. 406. Talleyrand was never a member
of the Directory.

[40] Preface to second edition.

[41] "Eight Lectures on Miracles," p. 50.

[42] Ibid. See Dr. Mozley's note on this passage.

[43] "Analogy." Part I. c. i. I give, of course, Bishop Butler's words as I find them, but,
as will be seen a little later, I do not quite take his view of the supernatural.

[44] "Three Essays on Religion," p. 174.

[45] "Address to the British Association," 1871.

[46] I say "primary cause;" of course I do not deny its own proper causality to the non-spiritual
or matter.

[47] "Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection," p. 368. I am, of course, aware of
Mr. Mill's remarks upon this view in his "Three Essays on Religion" (pp. 146-150). The subject
is too great to be discussed in a footnote. But I may observe that he rests, at bottom, upon
the assumption--surely an enormous assumption--that causation is order. Cardinal Newman's argument
upon this matter in the "Grammar of Assent" (pp. 66-72, 5th ed.) seems to me to be unanswerable;
certainly, it is unanswered. I have no wish to dogmatize--the dogmatism, indeed, appears to
be on the other side--but if we go by experience, as it is now the fashion to do, our initial
elementary experience would certainly lead us to consider will the great or only cause. To
guard against a possible misconception let me here say that I must not be supposed to adopt
Mr. Wallace's view in its entirety or precisely as stated by him. Of course, the analogy between
the human will and the Divine Will is imperfect, and Mr. Mill appears to me to be well founded
in denying that our volition originates. My contention is that Matter is inert until Force
has been brought to bear upon it: that all Force must be due to a Primary Force of which it
is the manifestation or the effect: that the Primary Force cannot exert itself unless it be
self-determined: that to be self-determined is to be living: that to be primarily and utterly
self-determined is to be an infinitely self-conscious volition: ergo, the primary cause of
Force is the Will of God. This is the logical development of the famous argument of St. Thomas
Aquinas. He contends that whatever things are moved must be moved by that which is not moved:
a movente non moto. But Suarez and later writers complete the argument by analyzing the term
movens non motum, which they consider equivalent to Ens a se, in se, et per se, or Actus Purissimus.

[48] "Contra Faustum," 22.

[49] Summa, 1, 2, qu. 83, art. 1. But on this and the preceding quotation, see the note on
page 118.

[50] "Quotidiana Dei miracula ex assiduitate vilescunt."--Hom. xxvi. in Evan.

[51] "Stated, fixed, or settled" is a predicate common to natural and supernatural, not the
differentia of either. And here let me remark that the expression, "Laws of Nature," is a modern
technical expression which the Catholic philosopher would require, probably, to have defined
before employing it. "Natura," in St. Thomas Aquinas, is declared to be "Principium operationis
cujusque rei," the Essence of a thing in relation to its activity, or the Essence as manifested
agendo. Hence "Natura rerum," or "Universitas rerum" (which is the Latin for Nature in the
phrase "Laws of Nature") means the Essences of all things created (finite) as manifested and
related to each other by their proper inherent activities, which of course are stable or fixed.
But since it is not a logical contradiction that these activities should be suspended, arrested,
or annihilated (granting an Infinite Creator), it will not be contrary to Reason should a miraculous
intervention so deal with them, though their suspension or annihilation may be described, loosely
and inaccurately, as against the Laws of Nature. By Reason is here meant the declarations of
necessary Thought as to possibility and impossibility, or the canons of contradiction, the
only proper significance of the word in discussions about miracles. Hence, to say that miracles
have their laws, is not to deny that they are by the Free Will of God. For creation is by the
Fiat of Divine Power and Freedom, and yet proceeds upon law--that is to say, upon a settled
plan and inherent sequence of cause and effect. But it is common with Mr. Mill and his school
to think of law as necessary inviolable sequence; whereas it is but a fixed mode of action
whether necessarily or freely determined; and it is a part of law that some activities should
be liable to suspension or arrestment by others, and especially by the First Cause.

[52] "Vie de Jésus," p. 247.

[53] When Mr. Mill says ("Three Essays on Religion," p. 224), "The argument that a miracle
may be the fulfilment of a law in the same sense in which the ordinary events of Nature are
fulfilments of laws, seems to indicate an imperfect conception of what is meant by a law and
what constitutes a miracle," all he really means is that this argument involves a conception
of law and of miracle different from his own, which is undoubtedly true. Upon this subject
I remark as follows: There is a necessary will (spontaneum non liberum) and a free will(liberum
non spontaneum); and these are in God on the scale of infinite perfection, as they are in man
finitely. With Mr. Mill, as I have observed in a previous note, Law is taken to signify "invariable,
necessary sequence;" and its test is, that given the same circumstances, the same thing will
occur. But it is essential to Free Will (whether in God or man) that given the same circumstances,
the same thing need not, may not, and perhaps will not, occur. However, an act may be free
in causa which hic et nunc must happen; the Free Will having done that by choice which brings
as a necessary consequence something else. For there are many things which would involve contradiction
and so be impossible, did not certain consequences follow them. This premised, it is clear
that the antithesis of Mr. Mill's "Law" is Free Will. Law and antecedent necessity to Mr. Mill
are one and the same. But Law in Catholic terminology means the Will of God decreeing freely
or not freely, according to the subject-matter; and is not opposed to Free-Will. It guides,
it need not coerce or necessitate, though it may. Neither in one sense, is Law synonymous with
Reason, for that is according to Reason, simply, which does not involve a contradiction, whether
it be done freely or of necessity; and many things are possible, or non-contradictives, that
Law does not prescribe. Nor again does Free-Will mean lawless in the sense of irrational; or
causeless, in the sense of having no motive: "contra legem," "præter legem" is not "contra
rationem," "prater rationem." The Divine Will, then, may be free, yet act according to Law,
namely, its own freely-determined Law. And it may act "not according to Law," and yet act according
to Reason. In this sense, then, theologians identify the Divine Will with the Divine Reason--I
mean, they insist that God's Will is always according to Reason--in this sense, but, as I think,
not in any other. For the Divine Will is antecedently free as regards all things which are
not God; but the Divine Intellect is not free in the same way. St. Augustine always tends to
view things in the concrete, not distinguishing their "rationes formales," or distinguishing
them vaguely. And Ratio with him does not mean Reason merely, but living Reason or the Reasoning
Being, the Soul. When St. Thomas Aquinas speaks of Lex Æterna he means the Necessary Law of
Morality, concerning which God is not free, because in decreeing it, He is but decreeing that
there is no Righteousness except by imitation of Him.

The root of all these difficulties and of all the confusion in speech which they have brought
forth is this: the mystery of Free-Will in God, the Unchangeable and Eternal, The great truth
taught in the words of the Vatican Council, "Deus, liberrimo consilio condidit universa," must
ever be borne in mind. Undoubtedly, there are no afterthoughts in God. But neither is there
a past in which He decreed once for all what was to be and what was not to be. He is the Eternal
Now. But still all events are the fulfilment of His Will, and contribute to the working out
of the scheme which He has traced for creation. Feeble is human speech to deal with such high
matters, serving, at the best, but dimly to adumbrate ineffable truths. As Goethe somewhere
says, "Words are good, but not the best: the best cannot be expressed in words. My point, however,
is that there is, on the one hand, a connection of events with events all through creation
and an intelligible sequence, while, on the other, the Free-Will of man is a determining force
as regards his own spiritual actions, as is the Free-Will of God in respect of the whole creation,
and that miracles are neither afterthoughts, nor irregularities, nor contradictions, but at
once free and according to law. Miracles are not abnormal, unless Free-Will is a reduction
of Kosmos to Chaos, and the negation of Reason altogether."

[54] I say "the doctrine of the Divine goodness," because that is, as I think, what the author
of "Natural Religion" means. As to the "simple, absolute benevolence"--"benevolence," indeed,
is a milk-and-water expression; "God is love"--which "some men seem to think the only character
of the Author of Nature," it is enough to refer to Bishop Butler's striking chapter on "The
Moral Government of God," (Analogy, Part I. c. iii). I will here merely observe that although,
doubtless, God's attribute is Love of the creation, He is not only Love, but Sanctity, Justice,
Creative Power, Force, Providence; and whereas, considered as a Unit He is infinite, He is
not infinite--I speak under correction--viewed in those aspects, abstractions, or attributes
which, separately taken, are necessary for our subjective view of Him. I allow that God's power
and His "benevolence" may in some cases work out different ends, as if separate entities, but
still maintain--what the author of "Natural Religion" ignores--that God in His very essence
is not only "Benevolence," but Sanctity, &c. also; all as One in His Oneness.

[55] "Three Essays on Religion," p. 38.

SYRIAN COLONIZATION.

During the past few years many proposals have been made, and schemes formed, for repeopling
the wastes of Syria and Palestine with the surplus population of Europe. These schemes, sometimes
philanthropic, sometimes commercial, are always advocated on the assumption that the current
of European emigration and capital might be turned to Syria and Palestine in accordance with
sound economic and financial considerations. In this paper I propose--

First. To take a survey of the agricultural resources of the country.

Second. To draw attention to the difficulties which immigrants would experience in obtaining
secure titles to landed property.

Third. To give a summary of the different kinds of land tenure, and the burdens on agriculture.

Fourth. To point out some of the dangers and inconveniences to which immigrants would be exposed.

       *       *       *       *       *

I. In the first place we may say broadly that the natural resources of Syria and Palestine
are agricultural. On the eastern slopes of Mount Hermon there are a few bitumen pits from which
a small quantity of ore of excellent quality is yearly exported to England. Small deposits
of coal and iron exist in several localities, and there are chemical deposits about the shores
of the Dead Sea. Gypsum and coloured marble are found in Syria, and along the coast opposite
the Lebanon range sponges are fished annually to the value of £20,000. Hot sulphur springs
exist at Palmyra and the Sea of Galilee, and there are ruined baths on the way between Damascus
and Palmyra and in the Yarmûk Valley; but none of these natural products are of sufficient
importance to attract European labour or capital.

Forests can scarcely be said to exist in Syria or Palestine. A few groves of cedars of Lebanon,
which escaped the axes of Hiram, are fast disappearing. On the limestone ridges and in some
of the valleys there are clumps of pine, and throughout a great part of the country there is
a considerable quantity of scrub oak which the peasants reduce to charcoal, and carry into
the cities. In Galilee one comes on places where the trees give a pleasing character to the
landscape. On Mount Carmel there are jungles and thickets of oak, and on the slopes towards
Nazareth there are considerable groves, but the nearest approach to a forest is where the oaks
of Bashan, which recall the beauties of an English park, assert their ancient supremacy.

Rows of poplars mark the courses of rivers and streams throughout the land, and supply beams
for flat-roofed houses; but when churches or other important buildings have to be roofed, or
timber is required for domestic purposes, it has to be imported from America, and carried into
the interior on the backs of animals. There remain trees enough in some places to lend beauty
to the landscape, and to show what the country may once have been, as well as to suggest what
it may again become; but there are no forests to attract labour or capital.

The few manufactories of wool and cotton and soap and leather are chiefly limited to local
want. Besides these there are the silk-spinning factories in the Lebanon, managed by Frenchmen
and natives, and a manufactory of cotton thread on one of the rivers of Damascus.

The popular accounts of the agricultural resources of Syria and Palestine are very different.
As instances of extremes:--Mark Twain tells us he saw the goats eating stones in Syria, and
he assures us that he could not have been mistaken, for they had nothing else to eat; while
Mr. Laurence Oliphant saw even in the Dead Sea "a vast source of wealth" for his English Company.
We read in his "Land of Gilead" these words: "There can be little doubt, in fact, that the
Dead Sea is a mine of unexplored wealth which only needs the application of capital and enterprise
to make it a most lucrative property."[56]

The tourists who traverse the country in spring, immediately after the latter rains, when there
is some vegetation in the barest places, and when their horses are up to the fetlocks in flowers,
never forget the beauty of the landscape. Others, who have been picturing to themselves a land
flowing with milk and honey, hills waving with golden grain, and green meadows dappled with
browsing flocks, and who pass through the land in autumn, find themselves bitterly disappointed.
As they trudge along the white glaring pathways, and through the roadless and flinty wilderness,
breasting the hot beating waves of a Syrian noonday, with only an ashy chocolate-coloured landscape
around them, scorched as if by the breath of a furnace, they get an impression of dreary and
blasted desolation which time can never efface. They looked for the garden of the Lord, and
they find only the "burning marl." It was my fate, during a long residence in Syria, to hear
autumn tourists criticize books written by spring tourists, and spring tourists criticize books
written by autumn tourists, and generally in a manner by no means complimentary to the authors'
veracity;--the fact being that the writers had given their impression of what they saw, with
perhaps a little of American wit, which consists in exaggerating "the leading feature."

I think, however, that to most English travellers, who have no hobbies to ride, the barren
appearance of Syria and Palestine is a disenchantment. Accustomed to their own moist climate
and green fields, they are not prepared for the dry and parched, and abandoned appearance of
the greater part of the country. With us an abundance of water spoils the crops; in Syria and
Palestine the case is reversed, for unless water can be poured over the land the crops are
stunted and uncertain. For six or seven months in the year scarcely any rain falls, and scarcely
a cloud darkens the sky. In October the early rain commences, with much thunder and lightning;
and in April the latter rain becomes light and uncertain, and generally ceases altogether.
Then the sky becomes intensely blue, and the sun comes out in all his glory, or rather in all
her glory, for with the Arabs the sun is feminine. Suddenly grass and vegetation wither up
and become dry for the oven. The level country, except where there are rivers, becomes parched.
The stones stick up out of the red soil like the white bones of a skeleton. Limestone, flint,
and basalt, and thorny shrubs, cover the face of the wilderness country. Here and there you
may see a dwarf oak, or an olive tree, or a wild fig tree, and among the mountains you may
notice little patches scratched and cultivated by the fellahîn; but, unless on the great plains
of Bashan and Esdraelon and Hamath, and on the uplands of Gilead, or where there is water for
irrigation, you may ride for hours along the zigzag paths, over mountain and high-land, and
before and behind extend the limestone and flinty rocks, white and blinding, and broken into
fragments or burnt into powder. It thus happens that few tourists who pass along the beaten
tracks of Syria and Palestine have any just conception of the vast agricultural resources of
the land.

The most striking features in the Syrian landscape are two parallel mountain ranges, which
appear on the map like two centipedes, running north and south. These are the Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon
ranges. Lebanon proper lies along the shore of the Mediterranean. The narrow strip of land
between the mountain and the sea was the home of the Ph[oe]nicians, who steered their white-winged
ships to every land, and dipped their oars in every sea, before the Britons were heard of.
The gardens of Sidon, luxuriant with bananas, oranges, figs, lemons, pomegranates, peaches,
apricots, &c., extend across the plain for two miles to the mountain, and show what Ph[oe]nicia
may once have been. The palm trees that adorn the fertile gardens of Beyrout are doubtless
survivors of the groves from which the strip of land once took its name.[57]

By the exertions of Lord Dufferin in 1860, a Christian governor was placed over the Lebanon
in a semi-independent position. Since then the terraced mountain has been marvellously developed,
and every foothold has been planted with vines and figs and mulberries. The industrious peasantry,
comparatively safe from Turkish rapacity, have cultivated the ledges among its crags and peaks,
and enjoy the fruits of their industry, sitting under their vines and fig trees. The bloodthirsty
and turbulent Druzes, restrained by law, and unable to hold their own in a field of fair competition,
are being rapidly civilized off the mountain, and betake themselves to remote regions in Bashan
where no law is acknowledged but that of the strong arm.

Between Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon stretches for seventy miles C[oe]lo-Syria or Buka'a, a well-watered
and fertile plain, containing about 500 square miles and 137 agricultural villages, and marked
by such ruins as those of Chalcis and Baalbek.

The Anti-Lebanon consists of a series of mountain ranges, some of which run parallel with Lebanon,
and flatten into the plain at "the gathering in of Hamath," while some bend off in a more easterly
direction, and shoot out boldly into the desert. The westward end of this mountainous range
rises into Mount Hermon. The eastward end sinks into Palmyra. North of the Anti-Lebanon, the
narrow plain of C[oe]lo-Syria expands into the great rolling country of high-land, river, lake,
and plain, where for more than a thousand years the Hittite kings rolled back the tide of Egyptian
and Assyrian invasion, and where, in later years, the Selucidæ kings pastured their elephants
and steeds of war.

Among the ranges and spurs of the Anti-Lebanon are many green spots of great picturesque beauty.
Wherever there are fountains the habitations of men are clustered together at the water, seemingly
jostling and struggling like thirsty flocks to get to its margin. The cottages cling to the
edges of fountains and rivers in the most perilous positions. Sometimes they are stuck to the
rocks like swallows' nests, and sometimes they are placed on beetling cliffs like the home
of the eagle above the chasm. No solitary houses are met throughout the country. The people
build together for safety, and near the water for life, and by the village fountains and wells
cluster the fairest scenes of Eastern poetry, as well Arab and Persian as Hebrew, and around
them have taken place some of the fiercest of Oriental battles.

At the villages a little water is drawn off from the rivers, and carefully apportioned among
the different families and factions. By means of this water, carefully conducted to the various
gardens, apples and plums, grapes and pomegranates, melons and cucumbers, corn and onions,
olives and egg plants are cultivated; and such is the bounty of Nature, that with the least
effort existence is possible wherever there is water. A little rancid oil and a few vegetables
are sufficient to sustain life, and these can be had by a few hours labour in the cool of the
day. The rest of the time may be spent squatting cross-legged by the water, or smoking and
dozing in the shade. This is existence, but not life; yet why should the fellah labour for
anything beyond what is absolutely necessary, when the slightest sign of wealth would create
anxious solicitude on the part of the Turk?

A ride of seventy-two miles across Ph[oe]nicia, Lebanon, C[oe]lo-Syria, and Anti-Lebanon, brings
us, by French diligence, to Damascus. Abana and Pharpar break through a sublime gorge, about
100 yards wide, down the middle of which the French road winds its serpentine course, the rivers
on either side being fringed with silver poplar and scented walnut. As we look eastward from
the brow of the hill, the great plain of Damascus, encircled by a framework of desert, lies
before us. The river, escaped from the rocky gorge, spreads out like a fan, and, after a run
of three miles, enters Damascus, where it flows through 15,000 houses, sparkles in 60,000 marble
fountains, and hurries on to scatter wealth and fertility far and wide over the plain. Those
who have gazed on this scene are never likely to forget its supreme loveliness. Its beauty
is doubtless much enhanced by contrast. The eye has been wandering over a chocolate-coloured
and heated landscape throughout a weary day; suddenly, on turning a corner, it rests on Eden.

The city is spread out before you, embowered in orchards, in the midst of a plain of 300 square
miles. Around the pearl-coloured, city--first in the world in point of time, first in Syria
and Western Asia in point of importance--surge, like an emerald sea, forests of apricots and
olives and apples and citrons, and "every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food,"
with all their variety of colour and tint, according to their season, sometimes all aglow with
blossoms, sometimes golden and ruddy with fruit, and sometimes russet with the mellowing tints
of autumn. Beyond the city the water conveys its wealth by seven rivers to shady gardens and
thirsty fields; and, as far as cultivation extends, two or three splendid crops during the
same year reward the industry of the husbandman. But even in the plain of Damascus the land
is cultivated for only a few miles beyond the gates of the city. The water that would fertilize
the whole plain flows uselessly into pestiferous marshes, and the wide plain within sight of
the Damascus garrison is abandoned to the Bedawîn of the Desert and the wild boars of the jungle.[58]

In Palestine there is the great plain of Esdraelon, now, to a large extent, in the hands of
a Greek firm at Beyrout, and partially cultivated, but capable of producing wheat and maize
and cotton and barley, throughout its whole extent. On the southern side of Carmel spreads
out the extensive plain of Sharon, a vast expanse of pasture-land, ablaze with flowers in early
spring, and rank with thistles in the time of harvest; and further south extends the still
more fertile regions of Philistia.

Looking south, from the southern slopes of Mount Hermon, the green plain of the Huleh, with
Lake Merom glassed in its centre, forms a beautiful picture. Mr. Oliphant here first saw an
enchanting location for his colony. "I felt," he says, "a longing to imitate the example of
the men of Dan; for there can be no question that if, instead of advancing upon it with six
hundred men, and taking it by force, after the manner of the Danites, one approached it in
the modern style of a joint-stock company (limited), and recompensed the present owners, keeping
them as labourers, a most profitable speculation might be made out of the 'Ard el Huleh.'"
The lake "might, with the marshy plain above it, be easily drained; and a magnificent tract
of country, nearly twenty miles long by from five to six miles in width, abundantly watered
by the upper affluents of the Jordan, might then be brought into cultivation. It is only now
occupied by some wandering Bedawîn and the peasants of a few scattered villages on its margin."[59]

East of the Jordan are the corn-growing table-land of Bashan and the beautiful and fertile
high-lands of Gilead. In the former I have ridden for hours, with an unbroken sea of waving
wheat as far as I could see around me, and as regards the "land of Gilead," I can confirm Mr.
Oliphant's most enthusiastic descriptions of its beauty, fertility, and desolation.

Nor are the agricultural resources of Syria and Palestine limited to the great irrigated plains
and broad trans-Jordanic table-lands. Throughout the country there are numerous villages shut
in among bare hills, with apparently no resource; but on closer inspection it turns out that
there are a few cultivated terraces, where tobacco and grape-vines and vegetables are cultivated,
and on a still closer inspection it is evident that the bare mountains all around were once
terraced, and doubtless clothed with the vine.

I was once crossing a series of undulating ranges abutting on Mount Hermon with an English
tourist who was making merry at the utterly barren appearance of "the promised land." It turned
out, however, that his attempted wit served to sharpen our observation, and we found that all
the hill-sides had once been terraced by human hands. A few miles further on we came to Rasheiya,
where the vineyards still flourish on such terraces, and we had no difficulty in coming to
the conclusion that the bare terraces, from which lapse of time had worn away the soil, were
once trellised with the vine, the highest emblem of prosperity and joy. Similar terraces were
noticed by Drake and Palmer in the Desert of Judea, far from any modern cultivation.

It is rash to infer that because a place is desolate now, it must always have been so, or must
always remain so. The Arab historian tells us that Salah-ed-Dîn, before the battle of Hattin,
set fire to the forests, and thus encircled the Crusaders with a sea of flame. Now there is
scarcely a shrub in the neighbourhood.

In wandering through that sacred land, over which the Crescent now waves, one is amazed at
the number of ruins that stud the landscape, and show what must once have been the natural
fertility of the country. Whence has come the change? Is the blight natural and permanent?
or has it been caused by accidental and artificial circumstances which may be only temporary?
Doubtless, each ruin has its tale of horror, but all trace their destruction to Islamism, and
especially to the blighting and desolating presence of the Turk.

That short, thick, beetle-browed, bandy-legged, obese man, that so many fresh tourists find
so charming, is a Turkish official. He and his ancestors have ruled the land since 1517. A
Wilberforce in sentiment, he is the representation of "that shadow of shadows for good--Ottoman
rule." The Turks, whether in their Pagan or Mohammedan phase, have only appeared on the world's
scene to destroy. No social or civilizing art owes anything to the Turks but progressive debasement
and decay.

That heap of stones, in which you trace the foundations of temples and palaces, where now the
owl hoots and the jackal lurks, was once a prosperous Christian village. Granted that the Christianity
was pure neither in creed nor ritual; yet it had, even in its debased form, a thew and sinew
that brought prosperity to its possessors. The history of that ruin is the history of a thousand
such throughout the empire. Its prosperity led to its destruction. The insolent Turk, restrained
by no public opinion, and curbed by no law, would wring from the villagers the fruits of their
labour. Oppression makes even wise men mad, and the Christians, goaded to madness, turned on
their oppressors. Then followed submission, on promise of forgiveness. The Christians surrendered
their arms, and the flashing scymitar of Islam fell upon the defenceless; and the place became
a ruin amid horrors too foul to narrate. No greater proof of the exhaustless fertility of the
soil of Syria and Palestine could be furnished than this: that the spoiler, unrestrained, has
been in it for 365 years, and that he has not yet succeeded in reducing it all to a howling
wilderness.

II. Those who embark capital in land, with a view to securing a home for themselves and their
children, should look closely to the character of their title-deeds. The foremost Englishman
in the Levant assured me that he never invested money in houses or land because there was no
such thing as security of title in the Turkish Empire. My own opinion, based on an experience
of ten years, is that it is impossible to know whether or not you have a title in Syria. Unfortunately
this judgment does not rest on mere opinions as to what might happen, but it is fortified by
the authoritative Commercial Reports of Her Majesty's Consuls throughout Syria and Palestine,
and by a series of facts of daily occurrence.

Vice-Consul Jago, of Beyrout, in a report dated July 11, 1876, thus writes:--

     "Efforts made by wealthy native Christians and Europeans to employ
     capital in agriculture have been invariably met by great obstacles,
     the apparent impossibility of getting incontestable title-deeds
     being one of the many, although such documents may have emanated
     from the highest authority in the land. Actions of ejectment have
     invariably followed such efforts, to which the fact of the
     Government itself being often the seller opposed no bar."

The same Vice-Consul, writing from Damascus, under date March 13, 1880, referring to the difficulty
of investing capital in agricultural enterprise, says:--

     "Unfortunately, the present judicial system is of a nature to
     permit, if not to foster, the thousand and one intrigues and
     vexations which seem to be almost inseparably connected with the
     possession of land in Syria, and additional facilities for such are
     to be found, if wanting, in the state in which the land registry
     offices are kept. Erasures, irregular entries, at the request of
     the interested, change of one name for another as the legitimate
     owner, resulting often in persons finding their names down in the
     Government books as owners of property, the existence of which was
     unknown to them, and vice versâ, cause the validity of
     title-deeds, issued as they are by various courts in the country,
     to be a fertile source of litigation, and fraudulent action.... The
     fact, however, that title-deeds can be set aside by verbal
     testimony perhaps sufficiently accounts for the little value they
     practically possess."

I could cite many instances in illustration of Mr. Jago's statements. An effort made by the
Rev. E. B. Frankel, of Damascus, to secure the title-deeds of a worthless piece of barren rock
without resorting to the degrading practices of the country, is interesting, not only as an
illustration in point, but also as showing that an honest man would suffer loss rather than
gain his point by questionable means. I was privy to the transactions as they occurred, but
as Mr. Frankel has kindly furnished me with a brief history, I shall give it in his own words:--

     "During my residence in Damascus, I tried one or two villages in
     the neighbourhood as a summer retreat, and at length fixed upon a
     village called Maraba, as being at a convenient distance from the
     city to ride there in the morning and return at night. Finding,
     however, that the native houses were scarcely habitable, I
     determined to have a small house built, close to, yet not
     overlooking, the village. To carry out my plan I had first of all
     to apply to the Vali for permission to do so. His Highness, with an
     outburst of Oriental liberality, declared his readiness to give me
     not only a piece of ground but a garden as well. This I declined
     with thanks, knowing the value of such an offer, but showed him on
     paper the spot I had chosen, consisting of a barren rock, and asked
     him to send a competent person to the place to examine the site and
     value it, and at the same time see from the plan that none of my
     windows would overlook my neighbours. In the course of a few days,
     I received a notice that a commission of six officials would meet
     me on the spot and settle the matter at once. I provided a luncheon
     al fresco, to which the sheikh of the village was invited to
     negotiate on the part of the villagers.

     "After a long preamble, setting forth the value of land in general,
     and of this spot in particular, he offered at length to sell the
     site for 5,000 piastres (a piastre is equal to 2d.).

     "'Fifty piastres,' wrote down the scribe. 'By the life of your
     father, it is too little--say 3,000.' 'Seventy-five,' said the
     scribe. 'Say 1,000--by Allah, it is worth 5,000; but Allah is
     great.' 100 piastres was the sum agreed to at last, and I had the
     permission to begin building at once.

     "When the house was half finished, an order came to stop, on the
     ground that it was built over the tomb of a Moslem saint, and that
     the departed spirit might not relish the vicinity of Christians,
     and avenge himself by doing us some bodily harm for which the Vali
     would be responsible.

     "After a great deal of trouble and investigation, his Highness was
     convinced that the existence of such a tomb was a myth. The next
     charge brought against me was, that whilst I pretended to build a
     house, I was in reality building a convent in the midst of a
     Mohammedan population. I had a hard struggle to convince him that
     Protestants had no such institutions.

     "Now all these charges had been trumped up by the officials in the
     hope of receiving the usual bribe, which I was determined not to
     give--having made up my mind to carry the business through honestly
     and legally. One more effort was made to annoy me, or rather to
     force me to give the customary 'backsheesh,'--viz., that the house
     was built over a road leading from the village to the stream to the
     great inconvenience of the villagers. The Consul had at length to
     interfere; the Government engineer was sent to investigate the
     matter and report upon it, which was to the effect that there was
     no vestige of road or foot-path in the vicinity of the house.

     "After this, I was left in peaceful possession so far, that no one
     could turn me out of the house, but not having the title-deeds, I
     could scarcely expect to find a purchaser in case I wished to sell
     it. My next effort was to secure the necessary papers. Month after
     month I applied in vain for them. The Governor pretended to be
     shocked to hear that his orders had not been carried out, he sent
     for the scribe, and threatened him with his fiercest displeasure if
     such an act of negligence should ever again be reported against
     him. The scribe pleaded a sprained wrist as an excuse for the
     delay, but by the life of the Prophet, he would write the document
     at once. I took a hasty leave of the Vali, and rushed off after the
     scribe, determined not to lose sight of him again; he had, however,
     disappeared, as if the earth had swallowed him up. These scenes
     were repeated over and ever again, till at the end of twelve
     months, having to leave Damascus, I had to sell the house at a
     great loss, not having the title-deeds. The purchaser, the American
     Vice-Consul, trusting to his official position, hoped to be able to
     succeed where I had failed.

     "I have no doubt but that by following the usual Oriental custom of
     backsheesh, and dividing £10 or £20 among the officials, every
     obstacle would have been removed to my obtaining the title-deeds of
     a property for which I paid the sum of 16s. 8d."

There are a few most interesting groups of German colonists in Palestine, who belong to a religious
order called "The Temple;" and who assume to be a Spiritual Temple in the Holy Land. As far
as I had opportunity of judging, the colonists were men who, as colonists, would succeed in
any land, except perhaps Syria. There were among them masons and carpenters and blacksmiths
and shoemakers and doctors. They were all accustomed to work with their hands, and they were
prepared to do, not only whatever hard work was to be done in their own colony, but also to
do any jobs for their neighbours, wherever their superior skill might be employed. They were
strong, patient, sober, devout, and they entered on their work with lofty but calm enthusiasm.
One branch settled at Jaffa, on the ruins of an American colony which had been led there by
a Mr. Adams, and which ended in sad disaster. Another has settled "under the shadow of Mount
Carmel," about a mile out of Haifa, and a third near Jerusalem. Besides settling in these places,
some of the girls were prepared to go out as servants, with results, in some cases, that cannot
be detailed. The first batch of these colonists settled near Nazareth in 1867, and all died
of malarious fever.[60] But the German colonists were not daunted by preliminary disaster,
and they have been since battling with the difficulties of the situation with a patient energy
bordering on heroism.

Mr. Oliphant visited the colonies at Jerusalem and Haifa, and after describing the streets
and gardens and homesteads created by German industry, he adds, "The colonists have scarcely
any trouble in their dealings with the Government."

Captain Conder, who spent much time among the colonists, gives a more realistic picture. He says--

     "The Turkish government is quite incapable of appreciating their
     real motives in colonization, and cannot see any reason beyond a
     political one for the settlement of Europeans in the country. The
     colonists have therefore never obtained title-deeds to the land
     they have bought, and there can be little doubt that should the
     Turks deem it expedient they would entirely deny the right of the
     Germans to hold their property. Not only do they extend no favour
     to the colony, though its presence has been most beneficial to the
     neighbourhood, but the inferior officials, indignant at the
     attempts of the Germans to obtain justice, without any regard to
     'the customs of the country' (that is, to bribery), have thrown
     every obstacle they can devise in the way of the community, both
     individually and collectively."[61]

The two most successful agricultural enterprises in Palestine are those of Bergheim and Sursuk,
and as these are often referred to with a view to induce Englishmen to embark capital in similar
enterprises, a few words about each may not be superfluous. Captain Conder, writing with full
and accurate information, says:--

     "Probably the most successful undertaking of an agricultural kind
     in Palestine is the farm at Abu Shûsheh, belonging to the
     Bergheims, the principal banking firm in Jerusalem. The lands of
     Abu Shûsheh belong to this family, and include 5,000 acres; a fine
     spring exists on the east, but in other respects the property is
     not exceptional. The native inhabitants are employed to till the
     land, under the supervision of Mr. Bergheim's son; a farmhouse has
     been built, a pump erected, and various modern improvements have
     been introduced. The same hindrance is, however, experienced by the
     Bergheims which has paralyzed all other efforts for the improvement
     of the land. The difficulties raised by the venal and corrupt
     under-officials of the Government have been vexatious and
     incessant, being due to the determination to extort money by some
     means or other, or else to ruin the enterprise from which they
     could gain nothing. The Turkish Government recognizes the right of
     foreigners to hold land, subject to the ordinary laws and taxes;
     but there is a long step between this abstract principle and the
     practical encouragement of such undertakings, and nothing is easier
     than to raise groundless difficulties, on the subject of title,
     or of assessment, in a land where the judges are as corrupt as the
     rest of the governing body."[62]

More important still is the estate of seventy square miles in the plain of Esdraelon, now in
the hands of Mr. Sursuk, a wealthy banker at Beyrout. Mr. Oliphant gives an account of the
enterprise. "The investment," he adds, "has turned out eminently successful; indeed, so much
so, that I found it difficult to credit the accounts of the enormous profits which Mr. Sursuk
derives from his estate."[63]

From Mr. Oliphant's description, I turn to the excellent Commercial Report, written by Vice-Consul
Jago, in plain prose, and I find he thus speaks of the undertaking:--

     "Some few years ago, the wealthiest native Christian in the
     country, tempted by the low price of land near Acre offered for
     sale by the Government, purchased a large tract, containing thirty
     villages, for £18,000. The revenue accruing to the Government was,
     prior to the purchase, between £T.1,500 and £T.2,000 per annum,
     owing to the poverty of the peasants, and consequently little
     production.

     "Large sums were spent in importing labour from other districts for
     cultivation, and in providing the peasants with proper means. Under
     judicious management the speculation paid well, as much as thirty
     per cent. on capital, besides increasing the taxes paid to the
     Government to £5,000. The peasantry likewise benefited, being
     assured of protection and prompt return for their labours. This
     state of prosperity produced local intrigue and jealousies. Actions
     of ejectment were brought to which the government title-deeds
     proved no bar. Journeys to Constantinople, and endless special
     commissions were the result, and it was only after a liberal
     expenditure of money, time, and labour, that the judicial courts of
     the country gave a decision, which, it is hoped, has set the matter
     finally at rest.... In short, a capitalist wishing to employ money
     in agriculture must be prepared to light his way, as it were, inch
     by inch, and that, too, with the weapons of the country."[64]

Apparently Mr. Oliphant would have no objection to use the weapons of the country. At least
he seems ready to base the successful launching of his Company on such considerations. Looking
out over the province of Ajlun, which is a fertile region about forty miles long by twenty-five
in width, he exclaims: "I feel no moral doubt that £50,000, partly expended judiciously in
bribes at Constantinople, and partly applied to the purchase of land, not belonging to the
State, from its present proprietors, would purchase the entire province, and could be made
to return a fabulous interest on the investment."[65]

I need only suggest that where investors embark their capital in philanthropic undertakings
for "fabulous interest," it might be well if they reflected on the character of their proposed
security and the means used to secure it.

III. Tenure of land in Syria and Palestine is regulated by Mohammedan law as administered in
the Ottoman Empire. That law contemplates land under a five-fold classification.

First. Crown lands set apart at the time of the conquest as the personal share of the Sultan
and the Mussulman nation. These crown lands were farmed to the highest bidders, and the rent
paid for them was known as Miri. Several changes at different times were introduced with respect
to the Miri, and in 1864 these were superseded by the Tapoo code, the effect of which was to
give titles of possession to those who, for ten years previously, had cultivated the crown
lands, on condition of their paying five per cent. of the value of the land against the issue
of their title-deeds. Under the Tapoo system the crown lands become subject to two fixed taxes--the
Verghoo, about four per mil. on the estimated value of the land; and the Ushr or tithe, which
should be a tenth part of the produce of the soil.

Second. Wakoof lands dedicated to the maintenance of holy places at Mecca, or to charitable
institutions and sacred sanctuaries.

Third. Mulk, or freehold property. This is subdivided into four categories, which I need not
enumerate. Such lands are owned and cultivated by private individuals, without payment to the
Government. The owners of such lands are free to dispose of them as they please, and at their
deaths they pass to their descendants in accordance with the rules of inheritance prescribed
by Mohammedan law.

Fourth. Waste lands.

Fifth. Lands abandoned through non-cultivation.

The above classification has the advantage of being theoretically simple, and easily understood
by the people; and the different items of taxation, as laid down by law, cannot be said to
be onerous. The following are the chief heads:--

Verghi.--A rate of four per mil., as stated above.

Ushr.--A tenth of the produce of the soil. This is sometimes raised to 12-1/2 per cent., and
in the manner in which it is collected it sometimes amounts to 20 or 30 per cent.

Income Tax.--Which amounts to 3 per cent. on the estimated income of those engaged in trade.

Military Exoneration Tax.--Payable by Jews, Christians, and other non-Moslems, at the rate
of £T.50 for every 182 males of all ages. There is a new law limiting this payment to males
between the ages of 15 and 60, but it has not yet come into operation.

Military Exemption Tax.--Payable by Moslems who are drawn by conscription, but wish to escape
service, at the rate of £T.50 each.

Tax on the Registration of Real Property.

Sheep and Goat Tax of sixpence per head (3 piastres).

Besides these there are stamp duties:--auction fees of 2-1/2 per cent., fees on contracts of
2-1/2 per cent., on sale of all animals 2-1/2 per cent., on recovery of debts 3 per cent.,
on transfer of real estate 1 per cent.; import duties of 8 per cent., export duties of 1 per
cent., and a charge of 8 per cent. on all native produce and manufactures when carried by sea
from one part of the Turkish Empire to another. There are also the duties on tobacco, liquors,
salt, &c. In addition to these Vice-Consul Jago, in his Commercial Report, dated Beyrout, July
11, 1876, gives a summary of seventeen agricultural burdens, which are worthy of the consideration
of all who feel disposed to embark in agriculture in Syria under its present rulers.

IV. European emigrants, on landing in Syria, would find themselves in an unhealthy climate.
The whole of the first batch of German settlers, and a very large number of the American emigrants
who preceded them, fell victims to the fevers of the country. Captain Conder, referring to
the difficulties of the German colonists, says:--

     "There are other reasons which militate against the idea of the
     final success of the Colony. The Syrian climate is not adapted to
     Europeans, and year by year it must infallibly tell on the Germans,
     exposed as they are to sun and miasma. It is true that Haifa is,
     perhaps, the healthiest place in Palestine, yet even here they
     suffer from fever and dysentery, and if they should attempt to
     spread inland, they will find their difficulties from climate
     increase tenfold."[66]

The privations and discomforts of Syrian peasant life would be intolerable to European emigrants.
The men would work by day under a blistering sun, and sleep at night the centre of attraction
for sand-flies and mosquitoes, and all the other nameless tormentors that leap and bite. Mr.
Oliphant speaks feelingly of a night spent at Kefr Assad:--

     "No sooner had the sounds of day died away, and the family and our
     servants gone to roost, than a pack of jackals set up that
     plaintive and mournful wail by which they seem to announce to the
     world that they are in a starving condition. They came so close to
     the village that all the dogs in it set up a furious barking. This
     woke the baby, of whose vocal powers we had been till then unaware.
     Fleas and mosquitoes innumerable seemed to take advantage of the
     disturbed state of things generally to make a combined onslaught.
     Vainly did I thrust my hands into my socks, tie handkerchiefs round
     my face and neck, and so arrange the rest of my night attire as to
     leave no opening by which they could crawl in. Our necks and wrists
     especially seemed circled with rings of fire. Anything like the
     number and voracity of the fleas of that 'happy village' I have
     never, during a long and varied intimacy with the insect,
     experienced."[67]

These experiences were made near the troglodyte village es-Sal; and as Mr. Oliphant peeped
into the subterranean dwellings and dark caves, with a view to his colonization company, he
exclaimed,

     "Indeed, there is probably no country in the world where an
     immigrant population would find such excellent shelter all ready
     prepared for them, or where they could step into the identical
     abodes which had been vacated by their occupants at least 1,500
     years ago, and use the same doors and windows."[68]

It is just possible, however, that emigrants might not care to have their necks and wrists
circled with rings of fire, and their bodies covered with swarms of loathsome insects, for
the romantic delights of living in underground dens that had not been occupied for 1,500 years.

Mr. Oliphant's scheme only contemplates Jewish emigrants, to whom such conditions would not
be altogether novel.

     "I should not," he says, "expect men to come from England or
     France, but from European and Asiatic Turkey itself, as well as
     from Russia, Galicia, Roumania, Servia, and the Slav countries."

He has, however, his eye on the whole Jewish race throughout the world when he says:--

     "As the area of land which I should propose, in the first instance,
     for colonization would not exceed a million, or, at most, a million
     and a half acres, it would be hard if, out of nearly 7,000,000 of
     people attached to it by the tradition of former possession, enough
     could not be found to subscribe a capital of £1,000,000, or even
     more, for its purchase and settlement, and if, out of that number,
     a selection of emigrants could not be made, possessing sufficient
     capital of their own to make them desirable colonists."[69]

This article is not a review of Mr. Oliphant's interesting book, and therefore I shall not
follow him into the details of his colonization scheme, where he narrows it, first, to Oriental
Jews exclusively, and second to the elevation of such Jews into petty landlords.

     "It has been objected," he says, "that the Jews are not
     agriculturists, and that any attempts to develop the agricultural
     resources of the country through their instrumentality must result
     in failure. In the first instance, it is rather as landed
     proprietors than as labourers on the soil, that I should invite
     them to emigrate into Palestine, where they could lease their own
     land at high prices to native farmers if they preferred, instead of
     lending money on crops at 20 or 25 per cent. to the peasants, as
     they do at present."[70]

This is the point to which Mr. Oliphant's fine enthusiasm dwindles down--the floating of a
joint-stock company, limited, with one million sterling capital, for the purpose of transforming
into "landed proprietors" a number of Oriental Jews, who would neither have the heart to work
themselves nor the skill to direct the labour of others. Those who have read modern history,
or political economy, will not require an elaborate exposure of a scheme which aims at setting
up in Gilead, under the guise of philanthropy, the rack-renting and ornamental landlording
which have received such severe rebukes in Europe. We refer to the general outline of Mr. Oliphant's
fascinating scheme, inasmuch as he has reduced to practical shape what others vaguely theorize
about.

He gives us a map of the proposed colony, connected by railways and tram-cars with the outer
world. It embraces "the plains of Moab and the land of Gilead," from the Jabok to the Annon.
I know the country well. It is even more beautiful and fertile than Mr. Oliphant describes
it to be. It is impossible to pass through it without the constant thought of what it might
be in the hands of an Anglo-Saxon race. Mr. Oliphant was struck with the beauty of the girls
of Ajlun, one of whom tried in vain to remove the vermin from his blankets. Dr. Thomson and
I lay on a grassy slope, a whole afternoon, at the village of es-Souf, watching the children
pelting each other with flowers, and we both agreed that we had never seen an assemblage of
merrier or lovelier children. "I cannot make them out," said Dr. Thomson, with unwonted enthusiasm;
"they seem to be English children."

Supposing the land for the proposed colony were secured, on Mr. Oliphant's plan, partly by
judicious bribing at Constantinople, and partly by buying out the interest of the present proprietors,
and that the undertaking proved to be the "sound and practical scheme containing all the elements
of success" which its promoters predict--the very success of the colony would expose the colonists
to a great and terrible danger. Travellers must have noticed that the fellahîn cultivate their
fields with long guns slung over their shoulders, and an armoury of pistols and daggers in
their belts. Why is this? Because, as the proverb, tested by experience, has it--"A Turkish
judge may be bribed by three eggs, two of them rotten; and a fellah may be murdered for his
jacket without a button upon it."

Mr. Oliphant came upon Circassians re-occupying deserted villages in the midst of the Bedawîn,
and he takes the fact as "valuable evidence that the problem of colonization by a foreign element,
so far as the Arabs are concerned, is by no means insoluble."[71] He seems to forget that the
traveller with empty pockets may whistle in the face of the highwayman. The Circassians are
settling in abandoned villages by the wish of the authorities. They have the deep sympathy
of all Moslems on account of their sufferings. Besides, they have nothing to lose which would
compensate the Bedawîn for the alienation of the Turkish Government.

The case would be far different with a rich and prosperous colony of foreigners supported by
foreign capital.

In his hurried tour beyond Jordan, Mr. Oliphant came upon the Fudl Arabs with 2,000 fighting
men, and in their midst a colony of 300 Circassians. In another place he came on a colony of
3,000 Circassians in the midst of the Naïm Arabs, who muster 4,000 fighting men. "The Anezeh
Arabs, who control," he says, "an area of about 40,000 square miles, and who can bring over
100,000 horsemen and camel-drivers into the field," would be on the borders of the colony,
and the Druzes, who are born warriors, and who inhabit Jebel-ed-Druze, he places at 50,000.
Besides these there are the Beni Sukhr, and other local tribes, whose fanaticism and cupidity
would be moved by the presence of a prosperous colony of foreigners.

On April 12, 1875, Dr. Thomson and I started from Der'a in a southwesterly direction over wavy
hills covered with splendid wheat, the sides of the way ablaze with anemones. As we approached
Remthey, we saw what in the miragy atmosphere seemed a row of trees fifteen or twenty miles
long. I had been over the path before, and I was struck with this new feature in the landscape.
Soon it seemed to us that the line, as far as we could see, was in motion, and as we approached
closer to it, we found that it was composed of camels. We spurred our horses, and soon we found
ourselves by the side of the great living stream of the Wuld 'Aly Arabs moving from the Arabian
Desert to the pastures of Jaulan. The procession marched six or seven abreast, and in families
of from 20 to 150. The camels had curious baskets fixed on their humps, and in these were stowed
women and children, and kids and dogs, while cooking utensils were hung all round the baskets,
and by the sides of their dams trotted little baby camels. The stream flowed past silent and
orderly, with here and there a spearman riding by the side of his family. At short intervals
flocks of sheep and goats marched parallel with the living stream.

A party of Arab horsemen were reclining on a little hill with their spears stuck in the ground
watching their people pass. We rode up to them, and their chief received us with great courtesy,
and urged us to await the arrival of the cavalry with the Sheikh, to whom I had once done a
favour which they remembered. We remained about an hour, and still the stream flowed past.
The Arabs told us they had begun to move at an early hour, and would continue on the march
for days, and as far as we could see, looking north and south, the procession was without break
or pause. They told us they could bring into the field 100,000 fighting men, and their people,
they said, was "like the sand of the sea." Never before or since have I seen such a swarm of
human beings--"a multitude that no man could number." Any trans-Jordanic colony would have
to calculate on the proximity of this horde, whose power has never been broken, not even by
Joshua nor Ibrahîm Pasha, and whose rule in their own land is supreme in virtue of their resistless
might. Even the Turkish Government bribe the Arabs in this region to let the Mohammedan pilgrims
pass to Mecca! How much black-mail would the prosperous colony of infidels have to pay for
permission to exist in the land of the faithful? And supposing arrangements could be made to
secure the tolerance of the Bedawîn, there would still remain the Druzes and Circassians, and
local sub-tribes and aggrieved fellahîn, who would form combinations to which an agricultural
colony could offer no effective resistance.

Mr. Oliphant speaks of driving the Arabs "back across the Hadj road, where a small cordon of
soldiers, posted in the forts which now exist upon it, would be sufficient to keep them in
check." Turkish soldiers would not be the slightest protection to a prosperous colony of infidels,
nor would a small cordon of any soldiers suffice, should the colony ever become a tempting prize.

In the spring of 1874, a small party of us were returning from Palmyra, and a few miles beyond
Karyetein we passed close by a desperate battle in progress between the Giath and Amour Arabs,
and a powerful caravan proceeding from Baghdad to Damascus. The camels of the caravan were
formed into a circular rampart, the head of one camel being made fast to the next; and from
behind this living rampart the hardy villagers, who were bringing provisions for their families
from beyond the Euphrates, defended themselves throughout a long summer day--the sound of the
battle being distinctly heard by the Turkish garrison at Karyetein. The Bedawîn galloped round
the circle, making a feint here and an attack there until the villagers were worn out and their
ammunition exhausted. Near sunset a wounded camel staggered and fell, and broke the line. The
circle opened out and became a crescent. Quick as lightning the Bedawîn rushed in at the breach,
the camels fled in panic in all directions, and the wiry Arabs with their flashing spears decided
the victory in a few minutes. I had full details of the fight afterwards from the victors and
the vanquished. The Bedawîns took possession of 120 loads of butter, and a large amount of
tobacco, dates, Persian carpets, horses, mules, and camels, valued at £4,000. All the caravan
people, dead and alive, were stripped naked in the desert. What did the Bedawîn do with 120
loads of butter? They had it brought into Damascus and sold publicly. What did the Bedawîn
do with the splendid carpets from the looms of Persia and Cashmere? They distributed them among
their powerful friends in Damascus, in return for efficient protection, and some of the best
found their way into the gorgeous saloons of those whose duty it was to administer justice.
One of my friends found three of his camels in the hands of the robbers' friends, and though
he got several orders from the Government for the restoration of his property, he could never
get them carried out. The above incident, of which I have complete details, may be interesting
to those who have any idea of entrusting their lives and property to the Bedawîn hordes and
the protecting Turk.

And what is true of the land of Gilead is true of all lands bordering the Desert. In the north-east
of Syria there is as fine a peasantry as is to be found anywhere. They are handsome and courteous,
though picturesque in rags. They are thrifty and frugal, but penniless and starving. They are
comparatively truthful and honest, but without credit or resources. They have broad acres which
only require to be scratched and they bring forth sixty-fold; but they cultivate little patches
surrounded with mud walls and within range of their matchlocks. During the greater part of
the year these poor people dare not walk over their own fields for fear of being stripped of
their tattered rags. And yet these are the most heavily taxed peasantry in the world. They
pay black-mail to the Bedawîn, who plunder them notwithstanding; and they pay taxes to the
Turks, who give them no protection. The Bedawîn enforce their claims by cutting off the ears
of any straggling villagers from defaulting villages, who fall within their power, and by carrying
off for ransom a number of village children into the Desert. The Turks enforce their claims
by imprisoning the Sheikhs of the villages till they have paid the uttermost farthing. With
protection and fair government, the peasantry of Northern Syria would be among the happiest
in the world. But in their land, what the Turkish caterpillar leaves the Bedawy locust devours.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the foregoing remarks it is evident that the agricultural resources of Syria and Palestine
are very great, and capable, under good government, of being largely developed: that the difficulties
encountered by those who invest capital in land in Syria and Palestine are such as to deter
immigrants from embarking in agricultural enterprises under Turkish rule in that land: and
that immigrants in Syria and Palestine would be exposed to great personal dangers, which would
increase in proportion to the success of their labours.

   WM. WRIGHT.

FOOTNOTES:

[56] "The Land of Gilead," p. 295.

[57] Ph[oe]nicia, the Greek [Greek: phoinikê], has been by some derived from [Greek: phoinix],
a palm tree.

[58] Vice-Consul Jago, writing from Damascus, March, 1880, says:--"With regard to the property
near the Damascus Lakes, it is on the edge of the Desert where no authority exists, and therefore
exposed to Bedawîn raids." He summarizes the agricultural products of the neighbourhood of
Damascus as:--"Wheat, barley, maize (white and yellow), beans, peas, lentils, kerané, gelbané,
bakié, belbé, fessa, boraké (the last seven being green crops for cattle food), aniseed, sésamé,
tobacco, shuma, olive, and liquorice root. The fruits are grapes, hazel, walnut, almond, pistachio,
currant, mulberry, fig, apricot, peach, apple, pear, quince, plum, lemon, citron, melon, berries
of various kinds, and a few oranges. The vegetables are cabbage, potatoes, artichokes, tomatoes,
beans, wild truffles, cauliflower, egg-plant, celery, cress, mallow, beetroot, cucumber, radish,
spinach, lettuce, onions, leeks, &c."--Report, dated Damascus, March 14, 1881. To these might
be added numerous other products, such as bitumen, soda, salt, hemp, cotton, madder-root, wool, &c.

[59] "The Land of Gilead," p. 19.

[60] "Tent Work in Palestine," p. 355.

[61] "Tent Work in Palestine," p. 361.

[62] Ibid. p. 372.

[63] "The Land of Gilead," p. 330.

[64] Beyrout, July 11, 1876.

[65] "The Land of Gilead," p. 131.

[66] "Tent Work in Palestine," p. 361.

[67] "The Land of Gilead," p. 146.

[68] Ibid. p. 103.

[69] "Land of Gilead," p. 21.

[70] Ibid. p. 23.

[71] "The Land of Gilead," p. 255.

THE CONSERVATIVE DILEMMA.

All is not as well as it should be with the Conservative party. Just when a succession of misfortunes
has lowered its credit with the world, it is harassed with mutiny in the camp. Both sides have
taken the public into their confidence. "Two Conservatives" lately figured on a distinguished
rostrum and retailed their grievances. A month later "Two other Conservatives" stood up on
the same spot and answered the impeachment. These dual appearances are rather puzzling. In
the case of the first couple it may be that they fixed upon the figure "2" as a neat divisor,
and while sending one-half of their force to the front kept the other half in reserve to defend
the rear. This explanation will not hold good for the second couple. The party loyalists can
hardly have been reduced to such insignificant proportions. Why, then, should they have hit
upon the odd device of delivering their apologetics in pairs? Is suspicion so rampant in their
ranks that no one man can be trusted? Is the drawing up of a reply to the insurgents so ticklish
a business that two heads are needed for its satisfactory performance? Or are we to see in
this circumstance merely another sign of the fatal dualism which pervades the party, and has
already rent Elijah's mantle in twain?

Instead of attempting to solve these mysteries let us turn to the indictment. There, at any
rate, are certain things set down in black and white, and some progress may be made in useful
knowledge without any desire to be wise above what is written. The manifesto drawn up by the
"Two Conservatives" is not altogether edifying reading. At a first glance it reminds us of
a round-robin got up in the servants' hall for the purpose of springing a mine upon the steward
and housekeeper, or of the whisperings sometimes heard in the lower ranks of a mercantile establishment
where a conviction prevails that nothing but discreet promotion will save the firm. Some of
the complaints set forth fall far beneath this level. They deal with tiffs and slights and
rebuffs. Services have not been compensated according to the estimate of those who rendered
them. Good things have been given to the wrong men, while modest merit has been left out in
the cold. Lord Beaconsfield had, it seems, a Figaro in his employ who fed him with judicious
doses of flattery and ministered to his blameless vices. The Figaro system has, we are given
to understand, been kept up, and the great men of the party take care to live in an atmosphere
of adulation. The Dukes meet with hard treatment. It is difficult to see how these unhappy
beings are to give satisfaction. They are faithless to their principles if they stand aloof;
they do wrong if they come down to scatter their smiles and their patronage among the crowd.
Their absence looks like treason while their presence demoralizes. In both cases they are mischievous.
What are they to do?

On the whole it is held to be best for the welfare of the party that the aristocratic chiefs
should forthwith perform the "happy despatch." They saved it by their secession from its councils
in 1868; they ruined it in 1874 when they rushed back to claim their share of the spoils. There
is some truth in the representation. It is not easy to forget the pathetic spectacle which
Mr. Disraeli presented at the former period. By his suppleness and audacity he had forced his
party through the crises of a revolution which they had denounced beforehand, and the consequences
of which they contemplated with dismay. Over against their fears there was nothing to be put
but their leader's assurances that everything would come right. They had taken "a leap in the
dark," they had staked the fortunes of the party on the dice-box, and events were to decide
the issue. When the blow came Mr. Disraeli's reputation for sagacity fell to zero. At last
the hollowness of his pretensions was detected, and there was no mincing of epithets for the
man who had befooled and destroyed a great party. The Dukes left him to himself, and, according
to our present informant, their flight was the harbinger of reviving fortunes. The heart of
provincial conservatism warmed to its deserted chief. The patriotic sentiments of the people
began to stir. Constitutional associations sprang up in the large towns. The reaction grew
apace when the party was left face to face with one great man. When in 1874 the most sanguine
prophecies were fulfilled, the Dukes could not have been more surprised if Moses and the Prophets
had dropt from the clouds to chide their unbelief. They made what amends they could for their
former incivilities. They gathered with prodigious hum about the great man, overwhelmed him
with disinterested plaudits, and settled down comfortably to the feast which his genius had
spread. From that moment, so we are assured, decay set in. Aristocratic patronage soon paralyzed
the rude energies which had won the victory. The Carlton again began to pay the bills and pull
the strings. Then in due time came the black night of defeat, when moon and stars disappeared,
and Toryism was plunged into a deeper gulf than ever. The lesson is plain. Roll up your aristocratic
trumpery, and give the party a leader. What it wants is a man strong enough to pull it out
of the slough and set it on its legs again.

The burden of the manifesto of the Two Conservatives is the want of a leader, and an exhaustive
process of exclusion shows among whom he is not to be found. The acting chiefs of the party
are made to pass in file before us, as the sons of Jesse passed before the prophet Samuel when
he wished to ascertain which of them was the predestined King of Israel. Not this man, nor
this, nor this, but is there not yet another? Yes, there was one among the sheepfolds who little
wotted of the greatness in store for him. The David of whom the Conservative Samuels are in
search can pretend perhaps to no such unconsciousness of his mission. A genius for opposition
pushes him to the front and flashes in speech and print. He is content probably to put up with
the leadership of the Lower House, assured that, with the Conservative commonalty at his back,
his talents will soon win for him a complete ascendancy. Meanwhile it is proved to demonstration
that none of the acting chiefs are fit for the post. Sir Richard Cross and Mr. W. H. Smith,
"great as are many of their qualities, do not entirely possess those that are necessary to
secure the plenary confidence of a party." Sir Michael Hicks-Beach comes nearest the mark,
"but, either from patience or indolence, he has not seen fit since 1880 to put forward his
best energies." In Lord George Hamilton and Mr. Stanhope "there lurks great promise," but they
lack years and experience. "Mr. Lowther is daring, but not always fortunate in his daring."
They may all stand aside. It is clear that none of the six will do. There is Mr. Gibson, but
"he is a lawyer and an Irishman of the Irish." As for Sir Stafford Northcote, he is a respectable
man, with a host of respectable qualities, but "he is too amiable for his ambition, which is
great, and in trying to play a double part, that of caution and daring, he is at times taxed
beyond his strength." Besides, the House of Commons did not choose him. He was "chosen for
them." There is as yet no active disaffection towards him, "but of latent dissatisfaction abundance,
and of active loyalty none." Was there ever such a beggarly account of empty boxes? Did anybody
ever see such an array of political numskulls? Not among these at any rate is the party to
find its leader. We must look for him among those whose names have been left out of the enumeration.
His blushes are certainly unseen, though his fragrance may not be wasted on the desert air.

The double manifesto of the mutineers is remarkable for the obliviousness it displays of everything
higher than personal and party interests. It reads like the minute-book of a Caucus. With a
few verbal alterations it might pass for a description of the quarrels between the "Stalwarts"
and the "Half-breeds." When Mr. Gibson befools Lord Salisbury over the Arrears Bill the comment
is, "What a cry for the country!" The Egyptian question suggests a hope that Egypt may deliver
the Conservatives from their Irish connections and enable them to agree upon a leader. The
preference shown for county over borough members is jotted down as a serious grievance. The
use made of social influence comes in for a share of lamentation. Here we seem to get within
the smell of soup, the bustle of evening receptions, and the smiles of dowagers. The cares
which weigh upon this couple of patriot souls cannot be described as august. It is hardly among
such petty anxieties that the upholders of the Empire and the pilots of the State are bred.
The men who bemoan such wrongs can scarcely aspire to be the sages and ornaments of a legislature
that gives laws to a fifth part of the human race. It is assuredly not in an outburst of wounded
egotism that we should expect to find any trace of that noble pride which delights in subordination
for public ends, and is willing to forget and to be forgotten in common services rendered to
the nation. If we were not assured that we have been conversing for half an hour with two fair
specimens of the chivalry of the land, we should almost suspect that we had been listening
to the confidences of a couple of retired but aspiring soap-boilers.

The criticisms of the "Two Conservatives" are not wholly destructive. As one fabric collapses,
we begin to see the graceful outlines of another, for which a top-stone is already prepared.
The question of the leadership is complicated by the requirements of the two Houses, but there
is not much doubt as to the direction in which the quivering needle will finally point. Notwithstanding
the gibes which have been flung at the aristocrats of the party, an aristocratic chief is necessary
to lead an aristocratic assembly, and the only possible selection is already made. Lord Cairns
stands dangerously near the centre of power, but the same may be said of him as of Mr. Gibson,
"He is a lawyer and an Irishman of the Irish." The noble lord, moreover, is objectionable on
the spiritual side of his character. To a High Churchman he smacks a little of the conventicle,
and is given to "exercises" at unauthorized times and places. His university escutcheon is
dim and stained compared with that of Oxford's Chancellor. On the whole Lord Cairns can never
be a serious rival for the first place among the peers of England.

Lord Salisbury is equipped with many of the qualifications that are necessary or held to be
desirable in a party leader. He is a member of the higher aristocracy. He can boast of ancestors
who played a distinguished part in the politics of Europe three centuries ago. This circumstance
appeals to the imagination and confers a legitimate advantage. He served an apprenticeship
in the House of Commons. On succeeding to the peerage he did not lose a moment in making his
influence felt in the Upper House. In one of his earliest speeches he startled the peers by
telling them that if they did not choose to assert their constitutional rights they would consult
their dignity by ceasing to be a House at all. He has had much experience in State affairs.
What he did at the India Office and as Foreign Secretary is too well known to the world. Lord
Salisbury's oratorical gifts are undeniable. He is one of a select half-dozen taken from either
House who stand first in the power of moving a popular assembly. Lord Beaconsfield said that
he "wanted finish." The remark was more spiteful than true. Lord Salisbury could not rival
his chief in the neatness and polish of an epigram, but just as little could Lord Beaconsfield
rival him in the unstudied graces of oratory. His speeches have a freedom and a rhythmical
flow which captivate the hearer. Though he gives full play to his imagination and recklessly
faces the risks to which an impetuous speaker is exposed, he is seldom stilted, and rarely
breaks the neck of a sentence. Here, perhaps, the favourable side of the catalogue should end.
His speeches have the great blemish of insolence. They are wanting in geniality, and apparently
wanting in reflectiveness. They contain too little thought and more than enough of gall. Perhaps
their cleverness is too obtrusive. His hearers are pleased, but they suspect a trick, and levy
a discount on his argument. The faults of his speeches are his faults as a politician. He is
headstrong and impulsive. He borrows his ideas from his passions, and fancies he is sagacious
when he is but following the bent of his uppermost desire. He has but little sympathy with
modern life and but a narrow comprehension of its facts. He is under the spell of long-descended
traditions, and would prefer, if he could have it so, the England of the Tudors to the England
of Victoria. Of the people and of the spirit which animates them he knows nothing. How should
he? Save the rustics of Hatfield, he has never seen them, except from a platform. His occasional
references to such a subject as English Nonconformity shows the depth of his benightedness;
and his ignorance, the voluntary and superb ignorance of the aristocrat and the High Churchman,
is the source of many of his blunders. Knowing nothing of the ground in front, he forces a
leap and comes down in the ditch, and his friends with him.

Lord Salisbury is indispensable, and as nothing will cure him of his faults the only plan is
to keep him out of the path of temptation. The way to do this, we are told, is to fill the
front bench in the House of Commons with the right sort of men. Thus his qualifications for
the leadership depend upon the choice which may be made of a leader for the Lower House. Everything
points to that as the one crucial business. The "Two Conservatives" seem to have a special
grudge against Mr. Gibson, perhaps because, unlike Sir Stafford Northcote, he is not too amiable
for his ambition, and has lately been making a formidable bid for power. Hence we are told
how absurd it is to think for a moment of Mr. Gibson. He is a member for the University of
Dublin and might just as well be a member of the House of Keys or of the States of Jersey.
Lord Salisbury would never have made such a humiliating display over the Arrears Bill if he
had not been misled by Mr. Gibson. Hence it is necessary to keep the hon. and learned gentleman
in the background if the party is not to be doomed to endless blunders, and driven, sheer beyond
the range of English sympathies.

The attack on Sir Stafford Northcote is conducted with greater caution, but with the same fell
design. We are told that Lord Salisbury's selection for the leadership on Lord Beaconsfield's
death was opposed by a near relative of Sir Stafford's, and lost by one vote. Then comes the
suggestion that Mr. Disraeli would not have left the House of Commons for the Upper House if
he had not believed that Mr. Gladstone had finally retired from the leadership of the Opposition.
In other words, had he foreseen the course of events he would not have entrusted the leadership
of the House to Sir Stafford Northcote. There is a vicious hit in the picture of Sir Stafford
sitting between Mr. W. H. Smith and Mr. Lowther, yielding by turns to the caution of the one
and the daring of the other, and showing himself unequal to the double part. Impartial observers
will, perhaps, admit that Sir Stafford Northcote's chief fault is a want of backbone. He has
not enough of confidence in himself. He would be a better politician if he were not so good
a man. He needs to be armed either with the power of kicking out, or with imperturbable composure.
This latter is the more useful and more dignified endowment, but it springs from a sense of
self-sufficiency which fails him. If he had but the gift of epigram he might escape from his
tormentors. The plague of it is that he never succeeds except when he reasons like a man of
sense, and weapons forged on this anvil are too blunt to pierce the thick hide of impudence.

No evil has befallen Sir Stafford Northcote but such as is common to men. It seems but the
other day when Lord Robert Cecil was playing the same freaks that Lord Randolph Churchill is
playing now. Our friend Fluellen would perhaps say, "the situations, look you, is both alike."
Either of the noble names would pass for the other if they were written with initials and dashes
in eighteenth century style. In those days the late Lord Derby was the Conservative chief,
and Mr. Disraeli led the Opposition in the Commons as his lieutenant. This arrangement nettled
the young blood of the Conservative noblesse. Lord Robert Cecil's outlook in the world was
not then what it afterwards became. He was a younger son with a career to make for himself.
Ambition can supply spurs, so can prudence, so can necessity, and so can all three combined.
The younger son of a great house enters upon political life at an enormous advantage over humbler
rivals. If there is any brilliancy about him his fortune is made. Lord Robert Cecil's influence
was sufficient to produce a succession of small insurrectionary earthquakes on the Opposition
benches. Old members from the shires nudged each other in their bucolic way and asked what
was the matter, learning with puzzled amusement that there were some who did not think it quite
right for the gentlemen of England to be led by a Semitic adventurer. But the Semitic adventurer
had the gifts of his race. He was primed to the throat with contempt and scorn, too cold and
measured withal for the slightest show of insolence. As each hurly-burly ended and the dust
settled, he was found sitting where he always meant to sit, just as if nothing had happened,
with the same impassive look and the same indomitable calm. He had one great advantage external
to himself. He knew that he could place unbounded confidence in the loyalty of his chief in
the Upper House, and so long as Lord Derby stood by him the insurgent school-boys on the back-benches
could do him no harm. Perhaps Sir Stafford Northcote cannot count upon the same support, but
then his own resources are greater, if he did but know it.

The truth is that Sir Stafford Northcote represents the only type of Conservatism that can
survive in the present state of political thought in England. It is not a brilliant type, but
that is the fault of history. Enough that it may be a useful one. Toryism has undergone a process
of inverse development which resembles decay, but which is merely an accommodation to the existing
conditions of life and health. The figments which used to furnish it with sustenance are dead.
The divine right of kings, which nourished as a sentiment long after it was disowned by the
laws, has at last gone spark out. The divine rights of the Church have followed suit. The legal
abuses which were clung to as a symbol of the unchangeableness of English institutions are
being swept away. The monopoly of political power which gave the right of governing the realm
as a perquisite to a few patrician families has been broken down. The compromise which transferred
the old privileges of the aristocracy to the middle classes has had to be abandoned. The "advancing
tide of democracy" at which men looked through a telescope twenty years ago, wondering at what
comparatively remote period it would reach our shores, has already reached us, and the waters
are still rising. The superstitions formerly attaching to the possession of land, to hereditary
descent, to ancestral titles, to the feudal pretensions of the squirearchy, are all dissipating
into thin air. If it is not yet proved whether science is a democratic power, at any rate it
asserts the predominance of natural laws, and at their fiat artificial distinctions must tend
to disappear.

In such a state of things what part is left for Conservatism to play? Mr. Disraeli asked and
answered the same question when he began his witches' dance. What have you to conserve? Nothing!
The answer is not true. There is much that may be conserved for a long time to come, and when
it can no longer be conserved in its present shape something will have to be said as to the
altered form it shall assume. One thing is certain. Conservatism cannot emancipate itself from
the conditions of the age. It may indeed turn hermit and shut itself up in parsonages and manor-houses,
but if it is still to be a political power it can only plan and achieve what is possible. It
accepts, and cannot but accept, the law of progress as the rule of legislation, and the only
arbiter to whom it can appeal is the national will. But you may advance slowly or rapidly,
you may resort to modifications and compromises instead of sweeping things bodily away. In
establishing a preference on these questions there is abundant room for popular advocacy. The
people are not swayed by pure reason. They are actuated to a great extent by their prejudices
and their passions. They must be taken as they are, and recent experience shows that it is
difficult to say beforehand what and how much may not be made out of them. Unorganized groups
of men are so helpless, oratory has so much power, the small vices of the mind have so strong
a tendency to pass into politics, that a wide field will long be open to propagandists of every
kind. It sometimes seems as if the obstacles to be overcome might be too great for the reformers,
and that the "children of light" must adjourn their efforts till the millennium is a little
nearer. It is the spread of education and the silent working of intellectual influences springing
from the higher knowledge of the age that puts the better chances on their side. But Conservatism
has its chances too, only it must not frighten the people with antiquated nonsense. It must
fall in with current ideas. It must set up on the whole similar aims to those of its opponents,
merely asking a preference for other methods. Above all, it must be modest and sober and give
up bounce and slap-dash. The people are becoming more serious. They reason more on politics
and with better lights; a sense of power teaches them self-respect, and they resent clap-trap.
Perhaps I ought to ask pardon for saying so, but they can see through a merely clever man,
like Lord Salisbury. A Liberal would find Sir Stafford Northcote a more formidable antagonist.
He might be more eloquent, but eloquence is not everything. A gentle persuasiveness, even with
a spice of puzzledom in it, will go further in the end. The Conservative mutineers know not
what they are doing when they try to demolish this type of Conservatism. Or perhaps they do
know, but are bent upon objects which, from a personal point of view, are attended with compensations.
But the future of Conservatism does not rest with them unless they change their ideas and manners.
The staying power and the fitness of things are on the side of those whom, with the ribald
audacity of youth, they deride as slow-coaches.

The "Two Conservatives" are not prepared to accept this humble rôle. They meditate something
heroic. They say that "if the Conservative party is to continue to exist as a power in the
State it must become a popular party;" "that the days are past when an exclusive class, however
great its ability, wealth, and energy, can command a majority in the electorate." "The liberties
and interests of the people at large," they say, "are the only things which it is possible
now to conserve: the rights of property, the Established Church, the House of Lords, and the
Crown itself, must be defended on the ground that they are institutions necessary or useful
to the preservation of civil and religious freedom, and can be maintained only so far as the
people take this view of their subsistence." These are the principles of democracy. It is here
laid down that the people are the only legitimate court of appeal on political questions, and
that the decision rests, and ought to rest, with the numerical majority. Before this court
the most venerable institutions of the realm may be brought to have their merits sifted, and
an adverse verdict is to be followed by a writ of execution. The only test by which they are
to be judged is their utility. If they fail to stand it they are to be voted nuisances. The
standard of utility is not to be the interests or the supposed rights of any person or class,
but the interests of the whole people. The people themselves are to decide what is meant by
their liberties, how far they extend, and what other interests shall be superadded in making
out the standard towards which our institutions shall approximate.

If these are the principles of Neo-conservatism, our case is made out with a superfluity of
proof. Of course there is a pretence of acting on these principles already. When a measure
is before Parliament it is assumed that the sole issue in dispute is its utility. The Conservative
debater recognizes the decisiveness of this test just as freely as his opponents. But these
principles have not been openly avowed by the Conservatives. The "hypocrisy" with which Mr.
Disraeli taunted them still flourishes in the form of amiable prepossessions. A vast mass of
mystic and traditional lumber still enters into the foundations of Conservatism, and if all
this "wood, hay, and stubble" were to be burnt up it would fare ill with the frail fabric overhead.
The practical policy of Conservatism would not alter, and could not be altered much, but its
pretensions would have to be pitched in a lower key, and the excessive modesty of the part
which alone remains to it in the politics of the future would be put beyond dispute.

It would be interesting to see this theory of Conservatism, quietly admitted though it be into
the working details of legislation, hawked for acceptance among the Opposition benches, and
note the result. What is this new creed of yours? we can fancy the hon. and gallant member
for Loamshire ejaculating. That there must be no class influence in politics? That any half-dozen
hinds on my estate are as good as so many dukes? That the will of the people is the supreme
political tribunal? That if a majority at the polls bid us abolish the Church and toss the
Crown into the gutter we are forthwith to be their most obedient servants? And you tell me
that I can profess this horrible creed without ceasing to be a Tory! Before I could with a
spark of honesty so much as parley with it I should have to crave a seat among the red-hot
gentlemen yonder below the gangway. And the hon. and gallant member would only say the truth.
Privilege is the mint mark of Toryism, exclusiveness is its life and soul. The doctrine of
equal rights must be in everlasting repugnance to it. Toryism is the political expression of
feudalized society, with lords and squires at the top, subservient dependants half-way down,
and a mass of brutalized serfs at the bottom. It has been comparatively humanized by modern
influences, but nothing can change the bent of its genius. With privilege vested interests
of all sorts enter into ready fellowship. All those good citizens who have reason to suspect
that if a public inquest sat upon them the verdict would not be favourable hasten to edge themselves
in as closely as possible towards the privileged circle. The village rector, who does his duty
with all the conscientiousness of a beneficed Christian, but who prizes his glebe and tithe,
rushes to Cambridge to swell the majority for Mr. Raikes. Gentlemen of the long robe who make
politics a vocation gravitate for some reason or other towards Liberalism; but the lower branch
of the profession displays an opposite tendency. The county lawyer, who makes two-thirds of
his income out of the mysteries of conveyancing, has reason to dislike such things as the registration
of titles, and the transfer of estates by a few sentences extracted from a public record. The
licensed victuallers, tens of thousands strong and with more than a hundred millions of invested
capital, dread the change which would give them a quiet Sunday in return for a seventh of their
profits. The strength of Toryism lies in this phalanx of vested interests and social privileges.
The golden chain reaches from squire to Boniface, and still lower in the social scale, wherever
some snug little peculium is found to nestle. The principles of Neo-Conservatism would rend
the structure from top to bottom. The doctrine that the solution of all our political problems
and the fate of all our institutions are simply an affair of numerical majorities at the ballot-box,
and that the interests of the people are the sole end of legislation, is enough of itself to
smash the party to atoms.

All sensible politicians admit that if the time should come when a large majority of the people
are adverse to monarchical institutions it will be vain to think of maintaining them by force.
It may be added that sensible politicians seldom discuss such questions. They have too much
present work on hand to trouble themselves about the remote and the unknown. "What thy hand
findeth to do" is their motto, and out of the faithful achievements of to-day will the better
future spring. Nevertheless bare possibilities sometimes present themselves as conundrums to
be unravelled, and to the conundrum in question there is no second answer. But it is one thing
to quietly accept a proposition and then let it drop out of sight; it is another to run it
up to the top of the flag-staff as the symbol of a great party. This is what the "Neo-conservatives"
propose to do with their recent discovery. An opinion of the Crown's utility is to determine
whether it shall be preserved or destroyed. When the majority of the people cry "Away with
it," away it is to go. As soon as the popular fiat is announced, the Sovereign will depart
from Windsor, the Life Guards will present arms to the President of the Republic, and in the
twinkling of an eye, as the result of a contested election, the Monarchy of England is to be
decorously carried to the tomb. This is the doctrine which Tory lords and squires are asked
to proclaim with sound of trumpet as the corner-stone of their political creed. "Only so far
as the people take this view of its subsistence"--this is to be the Tory patent for the "subsistence"
of the Crown. Rather different this from the old cry:--

     "Ere the King's Crown go down there are crowns to be broke."

It is true that the peers no longer wear coats of mail, or lead their vassals to the field
of battle. Of most of them it is hardly disrespectful to suppose that on critical occasions
they would prefer the rear of the army to the van. But the creed is not quite extinct that
there are things worth fighting for, and that among them are the Monarchy of England and the
rights of the Crown. For practical purposes, perhaps, the creed is obsolete, but it lives in
the imagination, and the sentiments which spring from it are part of the cement of Toryism.
The solemn abjuration which is now proposed in the name of Neo-conservatism resembles a charge
of dynamite.

But in abandoning Tory principles the leaders of the new movement hope perhaps to drive a roaring
trade by defending Tory institutions. They will say that they have been obliged to shift their
ground, but that they hope to work with better results from their new position. The business
of the party is to prevail upon Household Suffrage to accept the survivals of feudalism, and
a verdict in the new court of appeal that shall ratify the old creed. It is a creditable enterprise.
Will it succeed? It seems but too likely that the efforts contemplated will only serve to weaken
the institutions they are meant to defend, and that whatever is practicable or desirable in
the objects aimed at will be secured most easily and most effectually by the Liberal party.

Among the political institutions of an old country there are some which certainly would not
be set up if the past were obliterated, and the nation were beginning afresh. They were suitable
to the times in which they originated, but they are out of harmony with the tendencies of the
present day. Perhaps they do some good; at any rate they do not do much harm, and the people
tolerate them for the sake of old associations. From this point of view a great deal may be
said in their behalf. They make visible the continuity of our national existence, they connect
us with a distant and romantic past, they lend to the State something of dignity and poetic
charm. Institutions of this sort may be held in veneration by those who can trace them to their
origin, and see them in perspective from the beginning. But there is one test they will not
stand. They will not pass unscathed through the crucible of modern criticism. They are disfigured
by anomalies, they shelter many abuses, they involve an expenditure of public money out of
proportion to the services rendered in return, they consecrate a privileged descent, in the
transmission of property they violate the rules of natural equity, while the principles on
which they rest need only to be developed and applied with logical consistency to overthrow
the fabric of political freedom. The best service that can be rendered to such institutions
is to say as little as possible about them. A wise friend will not utter a word in their defence
unless they are assailed, and the ground selected for defence will then be carefully limited
to the dimensions of the attack. The next best service will be to remove from them as occasion
offers all unsightly excrescences, to put an end to any anomaly which is beginning to excite
remark, and to amend any faults of mechanism which are likely to produce a jar. Such a policy
of discriminating reserve may lengthen out their existence indefinitely. But to force them
to the front, to exalt them as the ripest product of political wisdom, to hold them forth as
necessary to the maintenance of the civil and religious liberties of the people,--this can
only be the work of designing adversaries or of blundering friends. As a basis of party action
it would be like sand. It would be levelled by the mocking tides of popular criticism.

The programme of the "Two Conservatives" begins with a grand item, the conservation of the
liberties of the people. But why "conserve?" Why not extend and advance them? Why should the
present stage in the historical growth of our liberties be selected as the point at which conservation
becomes a duty? Would not the party which undertakes the task to-day be better pleased if there
were fewer of them to conserve? The Tories have always been adepts at conservation, but the
things they have been most willing to conserve were not our liberties but the restrictions
put upon our liberties. Since the liberties now proposed to be conserved are assumed to be
threatened by the Liberals, they must be liberties of a special sort, such as liberty to spread
infection, liberty to dispense with vaccination, liberty to send uninspected ships to sea,
to keep children away from school, or to send them out at any age to work in the fields, the
factory, or the streets. "Personal rights" have good radical sponsors in the hon. members for
Stockport and Leicester. Perhaps Parliament as a whole is the best sponsor. The Neo-conservative
programme should tell us what is meant by the liberties of the people. The absence of definition
may perhaps cover an imposture.

The next object of Neo-conservative devotion is the maintenance of the rights of property.
Those rights are of no private interpretation, and belong to sociology rather than to politics.
Every man is interested in them who has anything to lose, or who has a chance of acquiring
anything. Hence they cannot be claimed as an appanage of Toryism. They are placed under the
common championship of all parties. But the exclusive claim set up must have some meaning.
The rights of property intended may perhaps be the rights of property as understood by the
landlords, in which sense they may include a right to the property of other people; or as understood
by the association of which Lord Elcho is president, in which sense they stand in opposition
to the rights of the public. We know what is meant by the rights of landed proprietors, of
railway corporations, of publicans, of property owners, of shipowners, of pawnbrokers and of
corporate bodies, such as the guilds of the city of London. They represent the pretensions
of these classes to have their interests preferred to those of the community. It is a case
of prescription against equity, of the license assumed by special callings against the checks
and guarantees which Parliament has found it necessary to impose for the general welfare. This
is a field in which Neo-conservatism can reap no harvest. It will be vain to tell the working
man who is the owner of the house in which he lives, that his rights are in the same boat with
the right of London companies to squander or misapply the wealth which has descended to them
from the Middle Ages. It will be useless to enter an appeal before the tribunal of public opinion
in defence of such rights as these on the pretence that they are the rights of property. The
unsophisticated reason of the constituencies will resent the assumption as an attempted fraud.

The political institutions which are to be set forth as necessary to the maintenance of the
civil and religious liberties of the people are the Established Church, the House of Lords,
and the Crown. Of the Crown we have already spoken. It is the least vulnerable of the three,
and for this reason it is the least fitted to furnish a party cry. The strength of the Crown
resides in its enormous historical prestige, and in the constitutional device, old as the monarchy
in principle, but modern in its machinery, by which it is removed from the sphere of responsibility
and therefore from party assault. The Crown need not be defended for it is not assailed. If
it were assailed there are sufficient grounds for an adequate, perhaps a triumphant, defence.
But in mere truth it would be difficult to defend it on the special ground that it is necessary
to the maintenance of our civil and religious liberties. Everybody knows that these liberties
were won in despite of the Crown, and in opposition to its alleged prerogatives. We had to
send a dynasty adrift before we could regard our liberties as moderately secure. No greater
disservice can be done to any institution than to advance exaggerated or ill-founded pretensions
on its behalf, and this is what Neo-conservatism proposes to do for the Crown. It will be well
to keep this institution off the hustings. To utilize it for party purposes seems like an insidious
form of treason. The Established Church is fairer game, but absolutely worthless as a means
of raising the wind for a forlorn party. An institution which needs all the support it can
get has none to share with companions in distress. The Church may have a larger hold upon a
portion of the middle classes than it had thirty years ago, but the working classes are separated
from it by a wider gulf. Many who attend its services and call themselves Churchmen are utterly
indifferent to its political fate. It is preposterous to represent the Established Church as
necessary to the maintenance of civil and religious freedom. In the course of her history she
has been the unrelenting foe of both, and we have no more of either than she could help our
having. The want of disciplinary powers prevents her from interfering with the belief, or,
except in grave cases, with the moral conduct of her members, but the paralysis of the authority
necessary for internal discipline is not the same thing as religious freedom. The bondage of
the Church is not the liberty of the State. Disestablishment has not yet come within the range
of practical politics, but if a popular statesman felt it his duty to bring the question fairly
before the electorate, it is at least doubtful whether the verdict would not be hostile to
the Church. No doubt need be entertained as to the result of such an appeal in the case of
the House of Lords. The constitution of the House as an assembly of hereditary legislators
is admitted to be indefensible. Its theoretic prerogatives are tolerated only on the understanding
that they shall never be exerted. It exists by virtue of habit and indifference, aided by a
conviction of its powerlessness. As a decorative institution there is no great eagerness to
pull it down, but whenever the House forgets that its functions are ornamental, and commits
itself to a serious issue with the Commons, its last hour will be at hand. The step most likely
to precipitate its doom would be for the Tory party to glorify it as the palladium of our liberties,
and try to get up popular enthusiasm on its behalf. The House of Lords would not long survive
that treacherous homage. It would be beaten in one campaign.

No: from whatever point of view we consider the question, it is plain that the attempt to reconstruct
the Tory party on a Democratic basis cannot succeed. The open avowal of such an aim would deprive
Toryism of all backbone and reduce it to the condition of a moribund jelly-fish. It is not
given to any creature to change its nature and yet continue to discharge its old functions.
It is true that Toryism in order to get on at all with the present age is obliged occasionally
to act on Liberal principles. The device gives no offence so long as it is adopted quietly,
and if suspicions are awakened a few heart-stirring speeches in the old orthodox vein suffice
to allay them. A formal repudiation of old ideas is quite another thing. Just as Utopian is
the project of defending Tory institutions on Democratic principles. There are two arsenals
from which political combatants may choose their weapons, the historical and the scientific.
It is from the former that the champion equips himself who offers battle on behalf of institutions
that have descended to us from hoar antiquity. Weapons taken from the latter are unfit for
such a service. Every blow would recoil upon the institution which it was the champion's aim
to defend. To abandon the Established Church, the House of Lords, and the Crown to the uncovenanted
mercies of modern political criticism is a rash experiment. The hope which sees in such an
experiment a fresh lease of life and new chances of ascendency for Toryism is absurd.

Yet there is, and always will be, room for a Conservative party in English politics, only it
must move along the historic lines, and not needlessly renounce its old watchwords. We need
two brooms to keep our constitutional mansion in a tidy state, one in use, the other undergoing
repairs, or put in pickle, and ready to be brought in when wanted. Government by party requires
the existence of two parties, and demand is apt to generate supply. It is not necessary that
the two parties should be separated by an impassable gulf. It is only necessary that materials
for two separate connections should be provided, and in this emergency Nature does much to
help us. There are opposite moods of mind in politics as in literature and art; there are antithetical
differences of intellect and temperament to be found among men of all countries and all times;
there is the standing opposition between what is and what ought to be, between the actual and
the ideal, between the desire of the poor human wayfarer to sit down and rest, and the curiosity
which ever lures him on. Possession and the desire to possess, divine contentment and still
diviner discontent, self-centreing reflectiveness and impulses whose proper object is the welfare
of mankind,--here are agencies which play their part in politics as well as in social life.
These multifarious forces tend to range themselves on opposite sides, the sympathetic in each
class readily finding out their kinsmen in the rest. With such materials to work upon, a Conservatism
which chooses to follow the ordinary course of things can never be defunct. Extinction can
only come from an endeavour after some monstrous birth against which both Nature and history
have pronounced their ban.

   HENRY DUNCKLEY.