All this is very loosely stated, and must be set to rights. If you shut yourself up for some
fifty hours or so in a mail-coach, that keeps wheeling along at the rate of ten miles an hour,
and changes horses in half a minute, certainly for obvious reasons the less you eat and drink
the better; and perhaps an hourly hundred drops of laudanum, or equivalent grain of opium,
would be advisable, so that the transit from London to Edinburgh might be performed in a phantasma.
But the free agent ought to live well on his travels--some degrees better, without doubt, than
when at home. People seldom live very well at home. There is always something requiring to
be eaten up, that it may not be lost, which destroys the soothing and satisfactory symmetry
of an unexceptionable dinner. We have detected the same duck through many unprincipled disguises,
playing a different part in the farce of domestic economy, with a versatility hardly to have
been expected in one of the most generally despised of the web-footed tribe. When travelling
at one's own sweet will, one feeds at a different inn every meal; and, except when the coincidence
of circumstances is against you, there is an agreeable variety both in the natural and artificial
disposition of the dishes. True that travelling may act as a stimulus--but false that therefore
less nourishment is required. Would Dr Kitchiner, if now alive, presume to say that it was
right for him, who had sat all day with his feet on the fender, to gobble up, at six o'clock
of the afternoon, as enormous a dinner as we who had walked since sunrise forty or fifty miles?
Because our stimulus had been greater, was our nourishment to be less? We don't care a curse
about stimulus. What we want, in such a case, is lots of fresh food; and we hold that, under
such circumstances, a man with a sound Tory Church-and-King stomach and constitution cannot
over-eat himself--no, not for his immortal soul.

We had almost forgot to take the deceased Doctor to task for one of the most free-and-easy
suggestions ever made to the ill-disposed, how to disturb and destroy the domestic happiness
of eminent literary characters. "An introduction to eminent authors may be obtained," quoth
he slyly, "from the booksellers who publish their works."

The booksellers who publish the works of eminent authors have rather more common sense and
feeling, it is to be hoped, than this comes to--and know better what is the province of their
profession. Any one man may, if he chooses, give any other man an introduction to any third
man in this world. Thus the tailor of any eminent author--or his bookseller--or his parish
minister--or his butcher--or his baker--or his "man of business"--or his house-builder--may,
one and all, give such travellers as Dr Kitchiner and others, letters of introduction to the
said eminent author in prose or verse. This, we have heard, is sometimes done--but fortunately
we cannot speak from experience, not being ourselves an eminent author. The more general the
intercourse between men of taste, feeling, cultivation, learning, genius, the better; but that
intercourse should be brought about freely and of its own accord, as fortunate circumstances
permit, and there should be no impertinent interference of selfish or benevolent go-betweens.
It would seem that Dr Kitchiner thought the commonest traveller, one who was almost, as it
were, bordering on a Bagman, had nothing to do but call on the publisher of any great writer,
and get a free admission into his house. Had the Doctor not been dead, we should have given
him a severe rowing and blowing-up for this vulgar folly; but as he is dead, we have only to
hope that the readers of the Oracle who intend to travel will not degrade themselves, and disgust
"authors of eminence," by thrusting their ugly or comely faces--both are equally odious--into
the privacy of gentlemen who have done nothing to exclude themselves from the protection of
the laws of civilised society--or subject their fire-sides to be infested by one-half of the
curious men of the country, two-thirds of the clever, and all the blockheads.

DR KITCHINER.

THIRD COURSE.

Having thus briefly instructed travellers how to get a look at Lions, the Doctor suddenly exclaims--"IMPRIMIS,
BEWARE OF DOGS!" "There have," he says, "been many arguments, pro and con, on the dreadful
disease their bite produces--it is enough to prove that multitudes of men, women, and children
have died in consequence of having been bitten by dogs. What does it matter whether they were
the victims of bodily disease or mental irritation? The life of the most humble human being
is of more value than all the dogs in the world--dare the most brutal cynic say otherwise?"

Dr Kitchiner always travelled, it appears, in chaises; and a chaise of one kind or other he
recommends to all his brethren of mankind. Why, then, this intense fear of the canine species?
Who ever saw a mad dog leap into the mail-coach, or even a gig? The creature, when so afflicted,
hangs his head, and goes snapping right and left at pedestrians. Poor people like us, who must
walk, may well fear hydrophobia--though, thank Heaven, we have never, during the course of
a tolerably long and well-spent life, been so much as once bitten by "the rabid animal!" But
what have rich authors, who loll in carriages, to dread from dogs, who always go on foot? Even
the newspapers do not run up the amount above a dozen per annum, from which you may safely
deduct two-thirds. Now, four men, women, and children, are not "a multitude." Of those four,
we may set down two as problematical--having died, it is true, in, but not of hydrophobia--states
of mind and body wide as the poles asunder. He who drinks two bottles of pure spirit every
day he buttons and unbuttons his breeches, generally dies in a state of hydrophobia--for he
abhorred water, and knew instinctively the jug containing that insipid element. But he never
dies at all of hydrophobia, there being evidence to prove that for twenty years he had drank
nothing but brandy. Suppose we are driven to confess the other two--why, one of them was an
old woman of eighty, who was dying as fast as she could hobble, at the very time she thought
herself bitten--and the other a nine-year-old brat, in hooping-cough and measles, who, had
there not been such a quadruped as a dog created, would have worried itself to death before
evening, so lamentably had its education been neglected, and so dangerous an accomplishment
is an impish temper. The twelve cases for the year of that most horrible disease, hydrophobia,
have, we flatter ourselves, been satisfactorily disposed of--eight of the alleged deceased
being at this moment engaged at various handicrafts, on low wages indeed, but still such as
enable the industrious to live--two having died of drinking--one of extreme old age, and one
of a complication of complaints incident to childhood, their violence having, in this particular
instance, been aggravated by neglect and devilish temper. Where now the "multitude" of men,
women, and children, who have died in consequence of being bitten by mad dogs?

Gentle reader--a mad dog is a bugbear; we have walked many hundred times the diameter and the
circumference of this our habitable globe--along all roads, public and private--with stiles
or turnpikes--metropolitan streets and suburban paths--and at all seasons of the revolving
year and day; but never, as we padded the hoof along, met we nor were over-taken by greyhound,
mastiff, or cur, in a state of hydrophobia. We have many million times seen them with their
tongues lolling out about a yard--their sides panting--flag struck--and the whole dog showing
symptoms of severe distress. That such travellers were not mad we do not assert--they may have
been mad--but they certainly were fatigued; and the difference, we hope, is often considerable
between weariness and insanity. Dr Kitchiner, had he seen such dogs as we have seen, would
have fainted on the spot. He would have raised the country against the harmless jog-trotter.
Pitchforks would have gleamed in the setting sun, and the flower of the agricultural youth
of a midland county, forming a levy en masse, would have offered battle to a turnspit. The
Doctor, sitting in his coach--like Napoleon at Waterloo--would have cried "Tout est perdu--sauve,
qui peut!"--and re-galloping to a provincial town, would have found refuge under the gateway
of the Hen and Chickens.

"The life of the most humble human being," quoth the Doctor, "is of more value than all the
dogs in the world--dare the most brutal cynic say otherwise?"

This question is not put to us; for so far from being the most brutal Cynic, we do not belong
to the Cynic school at all--being an Eclectic, and our philosophy composed chiefly of Stoicism,
Epicureanism, and Peripateticism--with a fine, pure, clear, bold dash of Platonicism. The most
brutal Cynic, if now alive and snarling, must therefore answer for himself--while we tell the
Doctor, that so far from holding, with him, that the life of the most humble human being is
of more value than all the dogs in the world, we, on the contrary, verily believe that there
is many a humble dog whose life far transcends in value the lives of many men, women, and children.
Whether or not dogs have souls, is a question in philosophy never yet solved; although we have
ourselves no doubt on the subject, and firmly believe that they have souls. But the question,
as put by the Doctor, is not about souls, but about lives; and as the human soul does not die
when the human body does, the death of an old woman, middle-aged man, or young child, is no
such very great calamity, either to themselves or to the world. Better, perhaps, that all the
dogs now alive should be massacred, to prevent hydrophobia, than that a human soul should be
lost;--but not a single human soul is going to be lost, although the whole canine species should
become insane to-morrow. Now, would the Doctor have laid one hand on his heart and the other
on his Bible, and taken a solemn oath that rather than that one old woman of a century and
a quarter should suddenly be cut off by the bite of a mad dog, he would have signed the warrant
of execution of all the packs of harriers and fox-hounds, all the pointers, spaniels, setters,
and cockers, all the stag-hounds, greyhounds, and lurchers, all the Newfoundlanders, shepherd-dogs,
mastiffs, bull-dogs, and terriers, the infinite generation of mongrels and crosses included,
in Great Britain and Ireland--to say nothing of the sledge-drawers in Kamtschatka, and in the
realms slow-moving near the Pole? To clench the argument at once--What are all the old women
in Europe, one-half of the men, and one-third of the children, when compared, in value, with
any one of Christopher North's Newfoundland dogs--Fro--Bronte--or O'Bronte? Finally, does he
include in his sweeping condemnation the whole brute creation, lions, tigers, panthers, ounces,
elephants, rhinoceroses, hippopotami, camelopardales, zebras, quaggas, cattle, horses, asses,
mules, cats, the ichneumon, cranes, storks, cocks-of-the-wood, geese, and how-towdies?

"Semi-drowning in the sea"--he continues--"and all the pretended specifics, are mere delusions--there
is no real remedy but cutting the part out immediately. If the bite be near a blood-vessel,
that cannot always be done, nor when done, however well done, will it always prevent the miserable
victim from dying the most dreadful of deaths. Well might St Paul tell us to 'beware of dogs.'
First Epistle to Philippians, chap. iii., v. 2."

Semi-drowning in the sea is, we grant, a bad specific, and difficult to be administered. It
is not possible to tell, a priori, how much drowning any particular patient can bear. What
is mere semi-drowning to James, is total drowning to John;--Tom is easy of resuscitation--Bob
will not stir a muscle for all the Humane Societies in the United Kingdoms. To cut a pound
of flesh from the rump of a fat dowager, who turns sixteen stone, is within the practical skill
of the veriest bungler in the anatomy of the human frame--to scarify the fleshless spindle-shank
of an antiquated spinstress, who lives on a small annuity, might be beyond the scalpel of an
Abernethy or a Liston. A large blood-vessel, as the Doctor well remarks, is an awkward neighbour
to the wound made by the bite of a mad dog, "when a new excision has to be attempted"--but
will any Doctor living inform us how, in a thousand other cases besides hydrophobia, "the miserable
victim may always be prevented from dying?" There are, probably, more dogs in Britain than
horses; yet a hundred men, women, and children are killed by kicks of sane horses, for one
by bites of insane dogs. Is the British army, therefore, to be deprived of its left arm, the
cavalry? Is there to be no flying artillery? What is to become of the horse-marines?

Still the Doctor, though too dogmatical, and rather puppyish above, is, at times, sensible on dogs.

"Therefore," quoth he, "never travel without a good tough Black Thorn in your Fist, not less
than three feet in length, on which may be marked the Inches, and so it may serve for a measure.

"Pampered Dogs, that are permitted to prance about as they please, when they hear a knock,
scamper to the door, and not seldom snap at unwary visitors. Whenever Counsellor Cautious went
to a house, &c., where he was not quite certain that there was no Dog, after he had rapped
at the door, he retired three or four yards from it, and prepared against the Enemy: when the
door was opened, he desired, if there was any Dog, that it might be shut up till he was gone,
and would not enter the House till it was.

"Sword and Tuck Sticks, as commonly made, are hardly so good a weapon as a stout Stick--the
Blades are often inserted into the Handles in such a slight manner, that one smart blow will
break them out;--if you wish for a Sword-Cane, you must have one made with a good Regulation
Blade, which alone will cost more than is usually charged for the entire Stick.--I have seen
a Cane made by Mr PRICE, of the Stick and Umbrella Warehouse, 221, in the Strand, near Temple
Bar, which was excellently put together.

"A powerful weapon, and a very smart and light-looking thing, is an Iron Stick of about four-tenths
of an inch in diameter, with a Hook next the Hand, and terminating at the other end in a Spike
about five inches in length, which is covered by a Ferrule, the whole painted the colour of
a common walking-stick; it has a light natty appearance, while it is in fact a most formidable
Instrument."

We cannot charge our memory with this instrument, yet had we seen one once, we hardly think
we could have forgot it. But Colonel de Berenger in his Helps and Hints prefers the umbrella.
Umbrellas are usually carried, we believe, in wet weather, and dogs run mad, if ever, in dry.
So the safe plan is to carry one all the year through, like the Duke.

"I found it a valuable weapon, although by mere chance; for, walking alone in the rain, a large
mad dog, pursued by men, suddenly turned upon me, out of a street which I had just approached;
by instinct more than judgment, I gave point at him severely, opened as the umbrella was, which,
screening me at the same time, was an article from which he did not expect thrusts; but which,
although made at guess, for I could not see him, turned him over and over, and before he could
recover himself, his pursuers had come up immediately to despatch him; the whole being the
work of even few seconds; but for the umbrella the horrors of hydrophobia might have fallen
to my lot."

There is another mode, which, with the omission or alteration of a word or two, looks feasible,
supposing we had to deal not with a bull-dog, but a young lady of our own species. "If," says
the Colonel, "you can seize a dog's front paw neatly, and immediately squeeze it sharply, he
cannot bite you till you cease to squeeze it; therefore, by keeping him thus well pinched,
you may lead him wherever you like; or you may, with the other hand, seize him by the skin
of the neck, to hold him thus without danger, provided your strength is equal to his efforts
at extrication." But here comes the Colonel's infallible vade-mecum.

"Look at them with your face from between your opened legs, holding the skirts away, and running
at them thus backwards, of course head below, stern exposed, and above all growling angrily;
most dogs, seeing so strange an animal, the head at the heels, the eyes below the mouth, &c.,
are so dismayed, that, with their tails between their legs, they are glad to scamper away,
some even howling with affright. I have never tried it with a thorough-bred bull-dog, nor do
I advise it with them; though I have practised it, and successfully, with most of the other
kinds; it might fail with these, still I cannot say it will."

Thus armed against the canine species, the Traveller, according to our Oracle, must also provide
himself with a portable case of instruments for drawing--a sketch and note-book--paper--ink--and
PINS--NEEDLES--AND THREAD! A ruby or Rhodium pen, made by Doughty, No. 10, Great Ormond Street--pencils
from Langdon's of Great Russell Street--a folding one-foot rule, divided into eighths, tenths,
and twelfths of inches--a hunting-watch with seconds, with a detached lever or Dupleix escapement,
in good strong silver cases--a Dollond's achromatic opera-glass--a night-lamp--a tinder-box--two
pair of spectacles, with strong silver frames--an eye-glass in a silver ring slung round the
neck--a traveller's knife, containing a large and a small blade, a saw, hook for taking a stone
out of a horse's shoe, turnscrew, gun-picker, tweezers, and long corkscrew--galoches or paraloses--your
own knife and fork, and spoon--a Welsh wig--a spare hat--umbrella--two great-coats, one for
cool and fair weather (i.e. between 45° and 55° of Fahrenheit), and another for cold and foul
weather, of broad cloth, lined with fur, and denominated a "dreadnought."

Such are a few of the articles with which every sensible traveller will provide himself before
leaving Dulce Domum to brave the perils of a Tour through the Hop-districts.

"If circumstances compel you," continues the Doctor, "to ride on the outside of a coach, put
on two shirts and two pair of stockings, turn up the collar of your great-coat, and tie a handkerchief
round it, and have plenty of dry straw to set your feet on."

In our younger days we used to ride a pretty considerable deal on the outside of coaches, and
much hardship did we endure before we hit on the discovery above promulgated. We once rode
outside from Edinburgh to London, in winter, without a great-coat, in nankeen trousers sans
drawers, and all other articles of our dress thin and light in proportion. That we are alive
at this day, is no less singular than true--no more true than singular. We have known ourselves
so firmly frozen to the leathern ceiling of the mail-coach, that it required the united strength
of coachman, guard, and the other three outsides, to separate us from the vehicle, to which
we adhered as part and parcel. All at once the device of the double shirt flashed upon us--and
it underwent signal improvements before we reduced the theory to practice. For, first, we endued
ourselves with a leather shirt--then with a flannel one--and then, in regular succession, with
three linen shirts. This concluded the Series of Shirts. Then commenced the waistcoats. A plain
woollen waistcoat without buttons--with hooks and eyes--took the lead, and kept it; it was
closely pressed by what is, in common palaver, called an under-waistcoat--the body being flannel,
the breast-edges bearing a pretty pattern of stripes or bars--then came a natty red waistcoat,
of which we were particularly proud, and of which the effect on landlady, bar-maid, and chamber-maid,
we remember was irresistible--and, fourthly and finally, to complete that department of our
investiture, shone with soft yet sprightly lustre--the double-breasted bright-buttoned Buff.
Five and four are nine--so that between our carcass and our coat, it might have been classically
said of our dress--"Novies interfusa coercet." At this juncture of affairs began the coats,
which--as it is a great mistake to wear too many coats--never exceeded six. The first used
generally to be a pretty old coat that had lived to moralise over the mutability of human affairs--thread-bare--napless--and
what ignorant people might have called shabby-genteel. It was followed by a plain, sensible,
honest, unpretending, commonplace, everyday sort of a coat--and not, perhaps, of the very best
merino. Over it was drawn, with some little difficulty, what had, in its prime of life, attracted
universal admiration in Princes Street, as a blue surtout. Then came your regular olive-coloured
great-coat--not braided and embroidered à la militaire--for we scorned to sham travelling-captain--but
simplex munditiis, plain in its neatness; not wanting then was your shag-hued wraprascal, betokening
that its wearer was up to snuff--and to close this strange eventful history, the seven-caped
Dreadnought, that loved to dally with the sleets and snows--held in calm contempt Boreas, Notus,
Auster, Eurus, and "the rest"--and drove baffled Winter howling behind the Pole.

The same principle of accumulation was made applicable to the neck. No stock. Neckcloth above
neckcloth--beginning with singles--and then getting into the full uncut squares--the amount
of the whole being somewhere about a dozen: The concluding neckcloth worn cravat-fashion, and
flowing down the breast in a cascade, like that of an attorney-general. Round our cheek and
ear, leaving the lips at liberty to breathe and imbibe, was wreathed, in undying remembrance
of the bravest of the brave, a Jem Belcher Fogle--and beneath the cravat-cascade a comforter
netted by the fair hands of her who had kissed us at our departure, and was sighing for our
return. One hat we always found sufficient--and that a black beaver--for a lily castor suits
not the knowledge-box of a friend to "a limited constitutional and hereditary monarchy."

As to our lower extremities--One pair only of roomy shoes--one pair of stockings of the finest
lamb's-wool--another of common close worsted, knit by the hand of a Lancashire witch--thirdly,
Shetland hose. All three pair reaching well up towards the fork--each about an inch-and-a-half
longer than its predecessor. Flannel drawers--one pair only--within the lamb's-wool, and touching
the instep--then one pair of elderly casimeres, of yore worn at balls--one pair of Manchester
white cords--ditto of strong black quilt trousers, "capacious and serene"--and at or beneath
the freezing-point, overalls of the same stuff as "Johnny's grey breeks"--neat but not gaudy--mud-repellers--themselves
a host--never in all their lives "thoroughly wet through"--frost-proof--and often mistaken
by the shepherd on the wold, as the Telegraph hung for a moment on the misty upland, for the
philibeg of Phoebus in his dawn-dress, hastily slipt on as he bade farewell to some star-paramour,
and, like a giant about to run a race, devoured the cerulean course of day, as if impatient
to reach the goal set in the Western Sea.

DR KITCHINER.

FOURTH COURSE.

Pray, reader, do you know what line of conduct you ought to pursue if you are to sleep on the
road? "The earlier you arrive," says the Doctor, "and the earlier after your arrival you apply,
the better the chance of getting a good bed--this done, order your luggage to your room. A
travelling-bag, or a 'sac de nuit,' in addition to your trunk, is very necessary; it should
be large enough to contain one or two changes of linen--a night-shirt--shaving apparatus--comb,
clothes, tooth and hair brushes, &c. Take care, too, to see your sheets well aired, and that
you can fasten your room at night. Carry firearms also, and take the first unostentatious opportunity
of showing your pistols to the landlord. However well-made your pistols, however carefully
you have chosen your flint, and however dry your powder, look to the priming and touch-hole
every night. Let your pistols be double-barrelled, and with spring bayonets."

Now, really, it appears to us, that in lieu of double-barrelled pistols with spring bayonets,
it would be advisable to substitute a brace of black-puddings for daylight, and a brace of
Oxford or Bologna sausages for the dark hours. They will be equally formidable to the robber,
and far safer to yourself. Indeed we should like to see duelling black-puddings, or sausages,
introduced at Chalk-Farm;--and, that etiquette might not be violated, each party might take
his antagonist's weapon, and the seconds, as usual, see them loaded. Surgeons will have to
attend as usual. Far more blood, indeed, would be thus spilt, than according to the present
fashion.

The Doctor, as might be expected, makes a mighty rout--a prodigious fuss--all through the Oracle,
about damp sheets; he must immediately see the chambermaid, and overlook the airing with his
own hands and eyes. He is also an advocate of the warming-pan--and for the adoption, indeed,
of every imaginable scheme for excluding death from his chamber. He goes on the basis of everything
being as it should not be in inns--and often reminds us of our old friend Death-in-the-Pot.
Nay, as Travellers never can be sure that those who have slept in the beds before them were
not afflicted with some contagious disease, whenever they can they should carry their own sheets
with them--namely, a "light eider-down quilt, and two dressed hart-skins, to be put on the
mattresses, to hinder the disagreeable contact. These are to be covered with the traveller's
own sheets--and if an eider-down quilt be not sufficient to keep him warm, his coat put upon
it will increase the heat sufficiently. If the traveller is not provided with these accommodations,
it will sometimes be prudent not to undress entirely; however, the neckcloth, gaiters, shirt,
and everything which checks the circulation, must be loosened."

Clean sheets, the Doctor thinks, are rare in inns; and he believes that it is the practice
to "take them from the bed, sprinkle them with water, fold them down, and put them into a press.
When they are wanted again, they are, literally speaking, shown to the fire, and, in a reeking
state, laid on the bed. The traveller is tired and sleepy, dreams of that pleasure or business
which brought him from home, and the remotest thing from his mind is, that from the very repose
which he fancies has refreshed him, he has received the rheumatism. The receipt, therefore,
to sleep comfortably at inns, is to take your own sheets, to have plenty of flannel gowns,
and to promise, and take care to pay, a handsome consideration for the liberty of choosing
your bed."

Now, Doctor, suppose all travellers behaved at inns on such principles, what a perpetual commotion
there would be in the house! The kitchens, back-kitchens, laundries, drying-rooms, would at
all times be crammed choke-full of a miscellaneous rabble of Editors, Authors, Lords, Baronets,
Squires, Doctors of Divinity, Fellows of Colleges, Half-pay Officers, and Bagmen, oppressing
the chambermaids to death, and in the headlong gratification of their passion for well-aired
sheets, setting fire so incessantly to public premises as to raise the rate of insurance to
a ruinous height, and thus bring bankruptcy on all the principal establishments in Great Britain.
But shutting our eyes, for a moment, to such general conflagration and bankruptcy, and indulging
ourselves in the violent supposition that some inns might still continue to exist, think, O
think, worthy Doctor, to what other fatal results this system, if universally acted upon, would,
in a very few years of the transitory life of man, inevitably lead! In the first place, in
a country where all travellers carried with them their own sheets, none would be kept in inns
except for the use of the establishment's own members. This would be inflicting a vital blow,
indeed, on the inns of a country. For mark, in the second place, that the blankets would not
be long of following the sheets. The blankets would soon fly after the sheets on the wings
of love and despair. Thirdly, are you so ignorant, Doctor, of this world and its ways, as not
to see that the bed-steads would, in the twinkling of an eye, follow the blankets? What a wild,
desolate, wintry appearance would a bedroom then exhibit!

The foresight of such consequences as these may well make a man shudder. We have no objections,
however, to suffer the Doctor himself, and a few other occasional damp-dreading old quizzes,
"to see the bed-clothes put to the fire in their presence," merely at the expense of subjugating
themselves to the derision of all the chambermaids, cooks, scullions, boots, ostlers, and painters.
(The painter is the artist who is employed in inns, to paint the buttered toast. He always
works in oils. As the Director-General would say--he deals in buttery touches.) Their feverish
and restless anxiety about sheets, and their agitated discourse on damps and deaths, hold them
up to vulgar eyes in the light of lunatics. They become the groundwork of practical jokes--perhaps
are bitten to death by fleas; for a chambermaid, of a disposition naturally witty and cruel,
has a dangerous power put into her hands, in the charge of blankets. The Doctor's whole soul
and body are wrapt up in well-aired sheets; but the insidious Abigail, tormented by his flustering,
becomes in turn the tormentor--and selecting the yellowest, dingiest, and dirtiest pair of
blankets to be found throughout the whole gallery of garrets (those for years past used by
long-bearded old-clothesmen Jews), with a wicked leer that would lull all suspicion asleep
in a man of a far less inflammable temperament, she literally envelopes him in vermin, and
after a night of one of the plagues of Egypt, the Doctor rises in the morning, from top to
bottom absolutely tattooed!

The Doctor, of course, is one of those travellers who believe that unless they use the most
ingenious precautions, they will be uniformly robbed and murdered in inns. The villains steal
upon you during the midnight hour, when all the world is asleep. They leave their shoes down
stairs, and leopard-like, ascend with velvet, or--what is almost as noiseless--worsted steps,
the wooden stairs. True, that your breeches are beneath your bolster--but that trick of travellers
has long been "as notorious as the sun at noonday;" and although you are aware of your breeches,
with all the ready money perhaps that you are worth in this world, eloping from beneath your
parental eye, you in vain try to cry out--for a long, broad, iron hand, with ever so many iron
fingers, is on your mouth; another, with still more numerous digits, compresses your windpipe,
while a low hoarse voice, in a whisper to which Sarah Siddons's was empty air, on pain of instant
death enforces silence from a man unable for his life to utter a single word; and after pulling
off all the bed-clothes, and then clothing you with curses, the ruffians, whose accent betrays
them to be Irishmen, inflict upon you divers wanton wounds with a blunt instrument, probably
a crow-bar--swearing by Satan and all his saints, that if you stir an inch of your body before
daybreak, they will instantly return, cut your throat, knock out your brains, sack you, and
carry you off for sale to a surgeon: Therefore you must use pocket door-bolts, which are applicable
to almost all sorts of doors, and on many occasions save the property and life of the traveller.
The corkscrew door-fastening the Doctor recommends as the simplest. This is screwed in between
the door and the door-post, and unites them so firmly, that great power is required to force
a door so fastened. They are as portable as common cork-screws, and their weight does not exceed
an ounce and a half. The safety of your bedroom should always be carefully examined; and in
case of bolts not being at hand, it will be useful to hinder entrance into the room by putting
a table and chair upon it against the door. Take a peep below the bed, and into the closets,
and every place where concealment is possible--of course, although the Doctor forgets to suggest
it, into the chimney. A friend of the Doctor's used to place a bureau against the door, and
"thereon he set a basin and ewer in such a position as easily to rattle, so that, on being
shook, they instantly became molto agitato." Upon one alarming occasion this device frightened
away one of the chambermaids, or some other Paulina Pry, who attempted to steal on the virgin
sleep of the travelling Joseph, who all the time was hiding his head beneath the bolster. Joseph,
however, believed that it was a horrible midnight assassin, with mustaches and a dagger. "The
chattering of the crockery gave the alarm, and the attempt, after many attempts, was abandoned."

With all these fearful apprehensions--in his mind, Dr Kitchiner must have been a man of great
natural personal courage and intrepidity, to have slept even once in his whole lifetime from
home. What dangers must we have passed, who used to plump in, without a thought of damp in
the bed, or scamp below it--closet and chimney uninspected, door unbolted and unscrewed, exposed
to rape, robbery, and murder! It is mortifying to think that we should be alive at this day.
Nobody, male or female, thought it worth their while to rob, ravish, or murder us! There we
lay, forgotten by the whole world--till the crowing of cocks, or the ringing of bells, or blundering
Boots insisting on it that we were a Manchester Bagman, who had taken an inside in the Heavy
at five, broke our repose, and Sol laughing in at the unshuttered and uncurtained window showed
us the floor of our dormitory, not streaming with a gore of blood. We really know not whether
to be most proud of having been the favourite child of Fortune, or the neglected brat of Fate.
One only precaution did we ever use to take against assassination, and all the other ills that
flesh is heir to, sleep where one may, and that was to say inwardly a short fervent prayer,
humbly thanking our Maker for all the happiness--let us trust it was innocent--of the day;
and humbly imploring his blessing on all the hopes of to-morrow. For, at the time we speak
of, we were young--and every morning, whatever the atmosphere might be, rose bright and beautiful
with hopes that, far as the eyes of the soul could reach, glittered on earth's, and heaven's,
and life's horizon!

But suppose that after all this trouble to get himself bolted and screwed into a paradisaical
tabernacle of a dormitory, there had suddenly rung through the house the cry of FIRE--FIRE--FIRE!
how was Dr Kitchiner to get out? Tables, bureaus, benches, chairs, blocked up the only door--all
laden with wash-hand basins and other utensils, the whole crockery shepherdesses of the chimney-piece,
double-barrelled pistols with spring bayonets ready to shoot and stab, without distinction
of persons, as their proprietor was madly seeking to escape the roaring flames! Both windows
are iron-bound, with all their shutters, and over and above tightly fastened with "the cork-screw
fastening, the simplest that we have seen." The wind-board is in like manner, and by the same
unhappy contrivance, firmly jammed into the jaws of the chimney, so egress to the Doctor up
the vent is wholly denied--no fire-engine in the town--but one under repair. There has not
been a drop of rain for a month, and the river is not only distant but dry. The element is
growling along the galleries like a lion, and the room is filling with something more deadly
than back-smoke. A shrill voice is heard crying--"Number 5 will be burned alive! Number 5 will
be burned alive! Is there no possibility of saving the life of Number 5?" The Doctor falls
down before the barricado, and is stretched all his hapless length fainting on the floor. At
last the door is burst open, and landlord, landlady, chambermaid, and boots--each in a different
key--from manly bass to childish treble, demand of Number 5 if he be a murderer or a madman--for,
gentle reader, it has been a--Dream.

We must hurry to a close, and shall perform the short remainder of our journey on foot. The
first volume of the Oracle concludes with "Observations on Pedestrians." Here we are at home--and
could, we imagine, have given the Doctor a mile in the hour in a year-match. The strength of
man, we are given distinctly to understand by the Doctor, is "in the ratio of the performance
of the restorative process, which is as the quantity and quality of what he puts into his stomach,
the energy of that organ, and the quantity of exercise he takes." This statement of the strength
of man may be unexceptionably true, and most philosophical to those who are up to it--but to
us it resembles a definition we have heard of thunder, "the conjection of the sulphur congeals
the matter." It appears to us that a strong stomach is not the sole constituent of a strong
man--but that it is not much amiss to be provided with a strong back, a strong breast, strong
thighs, strong legs, and strong feet. With a strong stomach alone--yea, even the stomach of
a horse--a man will make but a sorry Pedestrian. The Doctor, however, speedily redeems himself
by saying admirably well, "that nutrition does not depend more on the state of the stomach,
or of what we put into it, than it does on the stimulus given to the system by exercise, which
alone can produce that perfect circulation of the blood which is required to throw off superfluous
secretions, and give the absorbents an appetite to suck up fresh materials. This requires the
action of every petty artery, and of the minutest ramifications of every nerve and fibre in
our body." Thus, he remarks, a little further on, by way of illustration, "that a man, suffering
under a fit of the vapours, after half an hour's brisk ambulation, will often find that he
has walked it off, and that the action of the body has exonerated the mind."

The Doctor warms as he walks--and is very near leaping over the fence of Political Economy.
"Providence, he remarks, furnishes materials, but expects that we should work them up for ourselves.
Inflexible justice, however, forces us to say, that although the Doctor throws a fine philosophical
light over the most general principles of walking, as they are involved in "that voluntary
labour which goes by the name of exercise," yet he falls into frequent and fatal error when
he descends into the particulars of the practice of pedestrianism. Thus, he says, that no person
should sit down to a hearty meal immediately after any great exertion, either of mind or body--that
is, one might say, after a few miles of Plinlimmon, or a few pages of the Principia. Let the
man, quoth he, "who comes home fatigued by bodily exertion, especially if he feel heated by
it, throw his legs upon a chair, and remain quite tranquil and composed, that the energy which
has been dispersed to the extremities may have time to return to the stomach, when it is required."
To all this we say--Fudge! The sooner you get hold of a leg of roasted mutton the better; but
meanwhile, off rapidly with a pot of porter--then leisurely on with a clean shirt--wash your
face and hands in gelid--none of your tepid water. There is no harm done if you should shave--then
keep walking up and down the parlour rather impatiently, for such conduct is natural, and in
all things act agreeably to nature--stir up the waiter with some original jest by way of stimulant,
and to give the knave's face a well-pleased stare--and never doubting "that the energy which
has been dispersed to the extremities" has had ample time to return to the stomach, in God's
name fall to! and take care that the second course shall not appear till there is no vestige
left of the first--a second course being looked on by the judicious moralist and pedestrian
very much in the light in which the poet has made a celebrated character consider it,--

    "Nor fame I slight--nor for her favours call--
    She comes unlook'd for--if she comes at all."

To prove how astonishingly our strength may be diminished by indolence, the Doctor tells us,
that meeting a gentleman who had lately returned from India, to his inquiry after his health
he replied, "Why, better--better, thank ye--I think I begin to feel some symptoms of the return
of a little English energy. Do you know that the day before yesterday I was in such high spirits,
and felt so strong, I actually put on one of my stockings myself?"

The Doctor then asserts, that it "has been repeatedly proved that a man can travel further
for a week or a month than a horse." On reading this sentence to Will Whipcord--"Yes, sir,"
replied that renowned Professor of the Newmarket Philosophy, "that's all right, sir--a man
can beat a horse!"

Now, Will Whipcord may be right in his opinion, and a man may beat a horse. But it never has
been tried: There is no match of pedestrianism on record between a first-rate man and a first-rate
horse; and as soon as there is, we shall lay our money on the horse--only mind, the horse carries
no weight, and he must be allowed to do his work on turf. We know that Arab horses will carry
their rider, provision and provender, arms and accoutrements (no light weight) across the desert,
eighty miles a-day, for many days--and that for four days they have gone a hundred miles a-day.
That would have puzzled Captain Barclay in his prime, the Prince of Pedestrians. However, be
that as it may, the comparative pedestrian powers of man and horse have never yet been ascertained
by any accredited match in England.

The Doctor then quotes an extract from a Pedestrian Tour in Wales by a Mr Shepherd, who, we
are afraid, is no great headpiece, though we shall be happy to find ourselves in error. Mr
Shepherd, speaking of the inconveniencies and difficulties attending a pedestrian excursion,
says, "that at one time the roads are rendered so muddy by the rain, that it is almost impossible
to proceed;"--"at other times you are exposed to the inclemency of the weather, and by wasting
time under a tree or a hedge are benighted in your journey, and again reduced to an uncomfortable
dilemma." "Another disadvantage is, that your track is necessarily more confined--a deviation
of ten or twelve miles makes an important difference, which, if you were on horseback, would
be considered as trivial." "Under all these circumstances," he says, "it may appear rather
remarkable that we should have chosen a pedestrian excursion--in answer to which, it may be
observed, that we were not apprised of these things till we had experienced them." What! Mr
Shepherd, were you, who we presume have reached the age of puberty, not apprised, before you
penetrated as a pedestrian into the Principality, that "roads are rendered muddy by the rain?"
Had you never met, either in your experience of life, or in the course of your reading, proof
positive that pedestrians "are exposed to the inclemency of the weather?" That, if a man will
linger too long under a tree or a hedge when the sun is going down, "he will be benighted?"
Under what serene atmosphere, in what happy clime, have you pursued your preparatory studies
sub dio? But, our dear Mr Shepherd, why waste time under the shelter of a tree or a hedge?
Waste time nowhere, our young and unknown friend. What the worse would you have been of being
soaked to the skin? Besides, consider the danger you ran of being killed by lightning, had
there been a few flashes, under a tree? Further, what will become of you, if you addict yourself
on every small emergency to trees and hedges, when the country you walk through happens to
be as bare as the palm of your hand? Button your jacket, good sir--scorn an umbrella--emerge
boldly from the sylvan shade, snap your fingers at the pitiful pelting of the pitiless storm--poor
spite indeed in Densissimus Imber--and we will insure your life for a presentation copy of
your Tour against all the diseases that leapt out of Pandora's box, not only till you have
reached the Inn at Capel-Cerig, but your own home in England (we forget the county)--ay, till
your marriage, and the baptism of your first-born.

Dr Kitchiner seems to have been much frightened by Mr Shepherd's picture of a storm in a puddle,
and proposes a plan of alleviation of one great inconvenience of pedestrianising. "Persons,"
quoth he, "who take a pedestrian excursion, and intend to subject themselves to the uncertainties
of accommodation, by going across the country and visiting unfrequented paths, will act wisely
to carry with them a piece of oil-skin to sit upon while taking refreshments out of doors,
which they will often find needful during such excursions." To save trouble, the breech of
the pedestrian's breeches should be a patch of oil-skin. Here a question of great difficulty
and importance arises--Breeches or trousers? Dr Kitchiner is decidedly for breeches. "The garter,"
says he, "should be below the knee, and breeches are much better than trousers. The general
adoption of those which, till our late wars, were exclusively used by 'the Lords of the Ocean,'
has often excited my astonishment. However convenient trousers may be to the sailor who has
to cling to slippery shrouds, for the landsman nothing can be more inconvenient. They are heating
in summer, and in winter they are collectors of mud. Moreover, they occasion a necessity for
wearing garters. Breeches are, in all respects, much more convenient. These should have the
knee-band three quarters of an inch wide, lined on the upper side with a piece of plush, and
fastened with a buckle, which is much easier than even double strings, and, by observing the
strap, you always know the exact degree of tightness that is required to keep up the stocking;
any pressure beyond that is prejudicial, especially to those who walk long distances."

We are strongly inclined to agree with the Doctor in his panegyric on breeches. True, that
in the forenoons, especially if of a dark colour, such as black, and worn with white, or even
grey or bluish, stockings, they are apt, in the present state of public taste, to stamp you
a schoolmaster, or a small grocer in full dress, or an exciseman going to a ball. We could
dispense too with the knee-buckles and plush lining--though we allow the one might be ornamental
and the other useful. But what think you, gentle reader, of walking with a Pedometer? A Pedometer
is an instrument cunningly devised to tell you how far and how fast you walk, and is, quoth
the Doctor, a "perambulator in miniature." The box containing the wheels is made of the size
of a watch-case, and goes into the breeches pocket, and by means of a string and hook, fastened
at the waistband or at the knee, the number of steps a man takes, in his regular paces, are
registered from the action of the spring upon the internal wheel-work at every step, to the
amount of 30,000. It is necessary, to ascertain the distance walked, that the average length
of one pace be precisely known, and that multiplied by the number of steps registered on the
dial-plate.

All this is very ingenious; and we know one tolerable pedestrian who is also a Pedometrist.
But no Pedometrician will ever make a fortune in a mountainous island, like Great Britain,
where pedestrianism is indigenous to the soil. A good walker is as regular in his going as
clock-work. He has his different paces--three, three and a half--four, four and a half--five,
five and a half--six miles an hour--toe and heel. A common watch, therefore, is to him, in
the absence of milestones, as good as a Pedometer, with this great and indisputable advantage,
that a common watch continues to go even after you have yourself stopped, whereas, the moment
you sit down on your oil-skin patch, why, your Pedometer (which, indeed, from its name and
construction, is not unreasonable) immediately stands still. Neither, we believe, can you accurately
note the pulse of a friend in a fever by a Pedometer.

What pleasure on this earth transcends a breakfast after a twelve-mile walk? Or is there in
this sublunary scene a delight superior to the gradual, dying-away, dreamy drowsiness that,
at the close of a long summer day's journey up hill and down dale, seals up the glimmering
eyes with honey-dew, and stretches out, under the loving hands of nourrice Nature, the whole
elongated animal economy, steeped in rest divine from the organ of veneration to the point
of the great toe, be it on a bed of down, chaff, straw, or heather, in palace, hall, hotel,
or hut? If in an inn, nobody interferes with you in meddling officiousness; neither landlord,
bagman, waiter, chambermaid, boots;--you are left to yourself without being neglected. Your
bell may not be emulously answered by all the menials on the establishment, but a smug or shock-headed
drawer appears in good time; and if mine host may not always dignify your dinner by the deposition
of the first dish, yet, influenced by the rumour that soon spreads through the premises, he
bows farewell at your departure, with a shrewd suspicion that you are a nobleman in disguise.

SOLILOQUY ON THE SEASONS.

FIRST RHAPSODY.

No weather more pleasant than that of a mild WINTER day. So gracious the season, that Hyems
is like Ver--Januarius like Christopher North. Art thou the Sun of whom Milton said,--

    "Looks through the horizontal misty air,
    Shorn of his beams,"

an image of disconsolate obscuration? Bright art thou as at meridian on a June Sabbath; but
effusing a more temperate lustre, not unfelt by the sleeping though not insensate earth. She
stirs in her sleep, and murmurs--the mighty mother; and quiet as herself, though broad awake,
her old ally the ship-bearing sea. What though the woods be leafless--they look as alive as
when laden, with umbrage; and who can tell what is going on now within the heart of that calm
oak grove? The fields laugh not now--but here and there they smile. If we see no flowers we
think of them--and less of the perished than of the unborn; for regret is vain, and hope is
blest; in peace there is the promise of joy--and therefore in the silent pastures a perfect
beauty how restorative to man's troubled heart!

The Shortest Day in all the year--yet is it lovelier than the Longest. Can that be the voice
of birds? With the laverock's lyric our fancy filled the sky--with the throstle's roundelay
it awoke the wood. In the air life is audible--circling unseen. Such serenity must be inhabited
by happiness. Ha! there thou art, our Familiar--the self-same Robin Redbreast that pecked at
our nursery window, and used to warble from the gable of the school-house his sweet winter song!

In company we are silent--in solitude we soliloquise. So dearly do we love our own voice that
we cannot bear to hear it mixed with that of others--perhaps drowned; and then our bashfulness
tongue-ties us in the hush expectant of our "golden opinions," when all eyes are turned to
the speechless "old man eloquent," and you might hear a tangle dishevelling itself in Neæra's
hair. But all alone by ourselves, in the country, among trees standing still among untrodden
leaves--as now--how we do speak! All thoughts--all feelings--desire utterance; left to themselves
they are not happy till they have evolved into words--winged words that sometimes settle on
the ground, like moths on flowers--sometimes seek the sky, like eagles above the clouds.

No such soliloquies in written poetry as these of ours--the act of composition is fatal as
frost to their flow; yet composition there is at such solitary times going on among the moods
of the mind, as among the clouds on a still but not airless sky, perpetual but imperceptible
transformations of the beautiful, obedient to the bidding of the spirit of beauty.

Who but Him who made it knoweth aught of the Laws of Spirit? All of us may know much of what
is "wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best," in obedience to them; but leaving the open day,
we enter at once into thickest night. Why at this moment do we see a spot once only visited
by us--unremembered for ever so many flights of black or bright winged years--see it in fancy
as it then was in nature, with the same dewdrops on that wondrous myrtle beheld but on that
morning--such a myrtle as no other eyes beheld ever on this earth but ours, and the eyes of
one now in heaven?

Another year is about to die--and how wags the world? "What great events are on the gale?"
Go ask our statesmen. But their rule--their guidance is but over the outer world, and almost
powerless their folly or their wisdom over the inner region in which we mortals live, and move,
and have our being, where the fall of a throne makes no more noise than that of a leaf!

Thank Heaven! Summer and Autumn are both dead and buried at last, and white lie the snow on
their graves! Youth is the season of all sorts of insolence, and therefore we can forgive and
forget almost anything in SPRING. He has always been a privileged personage; and we have no
doubt that he played his pranks even in Paradise. To-day, he meets you unexpectedly on the
hill-side; and was there ever a face in this world so celestialised by smiles! All the features
are framed of light. Gaze into his eyes, and you feel that in the untroubled lustre there is
something more sublime than in the heights of the cloudless heavens, or in the depths of the
waveless seas. More sublime, because essentially spiritual. There stands the young Angel, entranced
in the conscious mystery of his own beautiful and blessed being; and the earth becomes all
at once fit region for the sojourn of the Son of the Morning. So might some great painter image
the First-born of the Year, till nations adored the picture.--To-morrow you repair, with hermit
steps, to the Mount of the Vision, and,

    "Fierce as ten furies, terrible as hell,"

Spring clutches you by the hair with the fingers of frost; blashes a storm of sleet in your
face, and finishes, perhaps, by folding you in a winding-sheet of snow, in which you would
infallibly perish but for a pocket-pistol of Glenlivet.--The day after to-morrow, you behold
him--Spring--walking along the firmament, sad, but not sullen--mournful, but not miserable--disturbed,
but not despairing--now coming out towards you in a burst of light--and now fading away from
you in a gathering of gloom--even as one might figure in his imagination a fallen Angel. On
Thursday, confound you if you know what the deuce to make of his Springship. There he is, stripped
to the buff--playing at hide-and-seek, hare-and-hound, with a queer crazy crony of his in a
fur cap, swan-down waistcoat, and hairy breeches, Lodbrog or Winter. You turn up the whites
of your eyes, and the browns of your hands in amazement, till the Two, by way of change of
pastime, cease their mutual vagaries, and, like a couple of hawks diverting themselves with
an owl, in conclusion buffet you off the premises. You insert the occurrence, with suitable
reflections, in your Meteorological Diary, under the head--Spring.--On Friday, nothing is seen
of you but the blue tip of your nose, for you are confined to bed by rheumatism, and nobody
admitted to your sleepless sanctum but your condoling Mawsey. 'Tis a pity. For never since
the flood-greened earth on her first resurrection morn laughed around Ararat, spanned was she
by such a Rainbow! By all that is various and vanishing, the arch seems many miles broad, and
many miles high, and all creation to be gladly and gloriously gathered together without being
crowded--plains, woods, villages, towns, hills, and clouds, beneath the pathway of Spring,
once more an Angel--an unfallen Angel! While the tinge that trembles into transcendent hues
fading and fluctuating--deepening and dying--now gone, as if for ever--and now back again in
an instant, as if breathing and alive--is felt, during all that wavering visitation, to be
of all sights the most evanescent, and yet inspirative of a beauty-born belief, bright as the
sun that flung the image on the cloud--profound as the gloom it illumines--that it shone and
is shining there at the bidding of Him who inhabiteth eternity.--The grim noon of Saturday,
after a moaning morning, and one silent intermediate lour of grave-like stillness, begins to
gleam fitfully with lightning like a maniac's eye; and is not that

                    "The sound
    Of thunder heard remote?"

On earth wind there is none--not so much as a breath. But there is a strong wind in heaven--for
see how that huge cloud-city, a night within a day, comes moving on along the hidden mountain-tops,
and hangs over the loch all at once black as pitch, except that here and there a sort of sullen
purple heaves upon the long slow swell, and here and there along the shores--how caused we
know not--are seen, but heard not, the white melancholy breakers! Is no one smitten blind?
No! Thank God! But ere the thanksgiving has been worded, an airquake has split asunder the
cloud-city, the night within the day, and all its towers and temples are disordered along the
firmament, to a sound that might waken the dead. Where are ye, ye echo-hunters, that grudge
not to purchase gunpowder explosions on Lowood bowling-green at four shillings the blast? See!
there are our artillerymen stalking from battery to battery--all hung up aloft facing the west--or
"each standing by his gun" with lighted match, moving or motionless, Shadow-figures, and all
clothed in black-blue uniform, with blood-red facings portentously glancing in the sun, as
he strives to struggle into heaven. The Generalissimo of all the forces, who is he but--Spring?--Hand
in hand with Spring, Sabbath descends from heaven unto earth; and are not their feet beautiful
on the mountains? Small as is the voice of that tinkling bell from that humble spire, overtopped
by its coeval trees, yet is it heard in the heart of infinitude. So is the bleating of these
silly sheep on the braes--and so is that voice of psalms, all at once rising so spirit-like,
as if the very kirk were animated, and singing a joyous song in the wilderness to the ear of
the Most High. For all things are under his care--those that, as we dream, have no life--the
flowers, and the herbs, and the trees--those that some dim scripture seems to say, when they
die, utterly perish--and those that all bright scripture, whether written in the book of God,
or the book of Nature, declares will live for ever!

If such be the character and conduct of Spring during one week, wilt thou not forget and forgive--with
us--much occasional conduct on his part that appears not only inexplicable, but incomprehensible?
But we cannot extend the same indulgence to Summer and to Autumn. SUMMER is a season come to
the years of discretion, and ought to conduct himself like a staid, sober, sensible, middle-aged
man, not past, but passing, his prime. Now, Summer, we are sorry to say it, often behaves in
a way to make his best friends ashamed of him--in a way absolutely disgraceful to a person
of his time of life. Having picked a quarrel with the Sun--his benefactor, nay, his father--what
else could he expect but that that enlightened Christian would altogether withhold his countenance
from so undutiful and ungrateful a child, and leave him to travel along the mire and beneath
the clouds? For some weeks Summer was sulky--and sullenly scorned to shed a tear. His eyes
were like ice. By-and-by, like a great school-boy, he began to whine and whimper--and when
he found that would not do, he blubbered like the booby of the lowest form. Still the Sun would
not look on him--or if he did, 'twas with a sudden and short half-smile half-scowl that froze
the ingrate's blood. At last the Summer grew contrite, and the Sun forgiving, the one burst
out into a flood of tears, the other into a flood of light. In simple words, the Summer wept
and the Sun smiled--and for one broken month there was a perpetual alternation of rain and
radiance! How beautiful is penitence! How beautiful forgiveness! For one week the Summer was
restored to his pristine peace and old luxuriance, and the desert blossomed like the rose.

Therefore ask we the Summer's pardon for thanking Heaven that he was dead. Would that he were
alive again, and buried not for ever beneath the yellow forest leaves! O thou first, faint,
fair, finest tinge of dawning Light that streaks the still-sleeping yet just-waking face of
the morn, Light and no-Light, a shadowy Something, that as we gaze is felt to be growing into
an emotion that must be either Innocence or Beauty, or both blending together into devotion
before Deity, once more duly visible in the divine colouring that forebodes another day to
mortal life--before Thee what holy bliss to kneel upon the greensward in some forest glade,
while every leaf is a-tremble with dewdrops, and the happy little birds are beginning to twitter,
yet motionless among the boughs--before Thee to kneel as at a shrine, and breathe deeper and
deeper--as the lustre waxeth purer and purer, brighter and more bright, till range after range
arise of crimson clouds in altitude sublime, and breast above breast expands of yellow woods
softly glittering in their far-spread magnificence--then what holy bliss to breathe deeper
and deeper unto Him who holds in the hollow of his hand the heavens and the earth, our high
but most humble orisons! But now it is Day, and broad awake seems the whole joyful world. The
clouds--lustrous no more--are all anchored on the sky, white as fleets waiting for the wind.
Time is not felt--and one might dream that the Day was to endure for ever. Yet the great river
rolls on in the light--and why will he leave those lovely inland woods for the naked shores?
Why--responds some voice--hurry we on our own lives--impetuous and passionate far more than
he with all his cataracts--as if anxious to forsake the regions of the upper day for the dim
place from which we yet recoil in fear--the dim place which imagination sometimes seems to
see even through the sunshine, beyond the bourne of this our unintelligible being, stretching
sea-like into a still more mysterious night! Long as a Midsummer Day is, it has gone by like
a Heron's flight. The sun is setting!--and let him set without being scribbled upon by Christopher
North. We took a pen-and-ink sketch of him in a "Day on Windermere." Poor nature is much to
be pitied among painters and poets. They are perpetually falling into

    "Such perusal of her face
    As they would draw it."

And often must she be sick of the Curious Impertinents. But a Curious Impertinent are not we--if
ever there was one beneath the skies, a devout worshipper of Nature; and though we often seem
to heed not her shrine--it stands in our imagination, like a temple in a perpetual Sabbath.

It was poetically and piously said by the Ettrick Shepherd, at a Noctes, that there is no such
thing in nature as bad weather. Take Summer, which early in our soliloquy we abused in good
set terms. Its weather was broken, but not bad; and much various beauty and sublimity is involved
in the epithet "broken," when applied to the "season of the year." Commonplace people, especially
town-dwellers, who flit into the country for a few months, have a silly and absurd idea of
Summer, which all the atmospherical phenomena fail to drive out of their foolish fancies. They
insist on its remaining with us for half a year at least, and on its being dressed in its Sunday's
best every day in the week as long as they continue in country quarters. The Sun must rise,
like a labourer, at the very earliest hour, shine all day, and go to bed late, else they treat
him contumeliously, and declare that he is not worth his meat. Should he retire occasionally
behind a cloud, which it seems most natural and reasonable for one to do who lives so much
in the public eye, why, a whole watering-place, uplifting a face of dissatisfied expostulation
to heaven, exclaims, "Where is the Sun? Are we never to have any Sun?" They also insist that
there shall be no rain of more than an hour's duration in the daytime, but that it shall all
fall by night. Yet when the Sun does exert himself, as if at their bidding, and is shining,
as he supposes, to their heart's content, up go a hundred green parasols in his face, enough
to startle the celestial steeds in his chariot. A broken summer for us. Now and then a few
continuous days--perhaps a whole week--but, if that be denied, now and then,

    "Like angels' visits, few and far between,"

one single Day--blue-spread over heaven, green-spread over earth--no cloud above, no shade
below, save that dove-coloured marble lying motionless like the mansions of peace, and that
pensive gloom that falls from some old castle or venerable wood--the stillness of a sleeping
joy, to our heart profounder than that of death, in the air, in the sky, and resting on our
mighty mother's undisturbed breast--no lowing on the hills, no bleating on the braes--the rivers
almost silent as lochs, and the lochs, just visible in their aerial purity, floating dream-like
between earth and sky, imbued with the beauty of both, and seeming to belong to either, as
the heart melts to human tenderness, or beyond all mortal loves the imagination soars! Such
days seem now to us--as memory and imagination half restore and half create the past into such
weather as may have shone over the bridal morn of our first parents in Paradise--to have been
frequent--nay, to have lasted all the Summer long--when our boyhood was bright from the hands
of God. Each of those days was in itself a life! Yet all those sunny lives melted into one
Summer--and all those Summers formed one continuous bliss.

Few--no such days as those seem now ever to be born. Sometimes we indeed gaze through the face
into the heart of the sky, and for a moment feel that the ancient glory of the heavens has
returned on our dream of life. But to the perfect beatitude of the skies there comes from the
soul within us a mournful response, that betokens some wide and deep--some everlasting change.
Joy is not now what joy was of yore; like a fine diamond with a flaw is now Imagination's eye;
other motes than those that float through ether cross between its orb and the sun; the "fine
gold has become dim," with which morning and evening of old embossed the skies; the dewdrops
are not now the pearls once they were, left on

    "Flowers, and weeds as beautiful as flowers,"

by angels' and by fairies' wings; knowledge, custom, experience, fate, fortune, error, vice,
and sin, have dulled, and darkened, and deadened all things; and the soul, unable to bring
over the Present the ineffable bliss and beauty of the Past, almost swoons to think what a
ghastly thunder-gloom may by Providence be reserved for the Future!

Nay--nay--things are not altogether so bad with us as this strain--sincere though it be as
a stream from the sacred mountains--might seem to declare. We can yet enjoy a broken Summer.
It would do your heart good to see us hobbling with our crutch along the Highland hills, sans
great-coat or umbrella, in a summer-shower, aiblins cap in hand that our hair may grow, up
to the knees in the bonny blooming heather, or clambering, like an old goat, among the cliffs.
Nothing so good for gout or rheumatism as to get wet through, while the thermometer keeps ranging
between 60° and 70°, three times a-day. What refreshment in the very sound--Soaking! Old bones
wax dry--nerves numb--sinews stiff--flesh frail--and there is a sad drawback on the Whole Duty
of Man. But a sweet, soft, sou'-wester blows "caller" on our craziness, and all our pores instinctively
open their mouths at the approach of rain. Look but at those dozen downward showers, all denizens
of heaven; how black, and blue, and bright they in their glee are streaming, and gleaming athwart
the sunny mountain-gloom, while ever as they descend on earth, lift up the streams along the
wilderness louder and louder a choral song. Look now at the heather--and smile whenever henceforth
you hear people talk of purple. You have been wont to call a gold guinea or a sovereign yellow--but
if you have got one in your pocket, place it on your palm, and in the light of that broom is
it not a dirty brown? You have an emerald ring on your finger--but how grey it looks beside
the green of those brackens, that pasture, that wood! Purple, yellow, and green, you have now
seen, sir, for the first time in your life. Widening and widening over your head, all the while
you have been gazing on the heather, the broom, the bracken, the pastures, and the woods, have
the eternal heavens been preparing for you a vision of the sacred Blue. Is not that an Indigo
Divine? Or, if you scorn that mercantile and manufacturing image, steal that blue from the
sky, and let the lady of your love tinge but her eyelids with one touch, and a saintlier beauty
will be in her upward looks as she beseeches Heaven to bless thee in her prayers! Set slowly--slowly--slowly--O
Sun of Suns! as may be allowed by the laws of Nature. For not long after Thou hast sunk behind
those mountains into the sea, will that celestial ROSY-RED be tabernacled in the heavens!

Meanwhile, three of the dozen showers have so soaked and steeped our old crazy carcass in refreshment,
and restoration, and renewal of youth, that we should not be surprised were we to outlive that
raven croaking in pure gaieté du coeur on the cliff. Threescore and ten years! Poo--'tis a
pitiful span! At a hundred we shall cut capers--for twenty years more keep to the Highland
fling--and at the close of other twenty, jig it into the grave to that matchless strathspey,
the Reel of Tullochgorum!

Having thus made our peace with last Summer, can we allow the Sun to go down on our wrath towards
the AUTUMN, whose back we yet see on the horizon, before he turn about to bow adieu to our
hemisphere? Hollo! I meet us half-way in yonder immense field of potatoes, our worthy Season,
and among these peacemakers, the Mealies and the Waxies, shall we two smoke together the calumet
or cigar of reconciliation. The floods fell, and the folk feared famine. The people whined
over the smut in wheat, and pored pale on the Monthly Agricultural Report. Grain grew greener
and greener--reapers stood at the crosses of villages, towns, and cities, passing from one
to another comfortless quaichs of sma' yill, with their straw-bound sickles hanging idle across
their shoulders, and with unhired-looking faces, as ragged a company as if you were to dream
of a Symposium of Scarecrows. Alarmed imagination beheld harvest treading on the heels of Christmas,

    "And Britain sadden'd at the long delay!"

when, whew! to dash the dismal predictions of foolish and false prophets, came rustling from
all the airts, far, far and wide over the rain-drenched kingdom, the great armament of the
Autumnal Winds! Groaned the grain, as in sudden resurrection it lifted up its head, and knew
that again the Sun was in Heaven. Death became life; and the hearts of the husbandmen sang
aloud for joy. Like Turks, the reapers brandished their sickles in the breezy light, and every
field glittered with Christian crescents. Auld wives and bits o' weans mingled on the rig--kilted
to the knees, like the comely cummers, and the handsome hizzies, and the lo'esome lassies wi'
their silken snoods--among the heather-legged Highlandmen, and the bandy Irishers, brawny all,
and with hook, scythe, or flail, inferior to none of the children of men. The scene lies in
Scotland--but now, too, is England "Merry England" indeed, and outside passengers on a thousand
coaches see stooks rising like stacks, and far and wide, over the tree-speckled champaign,
rejoice in the sun-given promise of a glorious harvest-home. Intervenes the rest of two sunny
Sabbaths sent to dry the brows of labour, and give the last ripeness to the overladen stalks
that, top-heavy with aliment, fall over in their yellowy whiteness into the fast reaper's hands.
Few fields now--but here and there one thin and greenish, of cold, unclean, or stony soil--are
waving in the shadowy winds; for all are cleared, but some stooked stubbles from which the
stooks are fast disappearing, as the huge wains seem to halt for a moment, impeded by the gates
they hide, and then, crested perhaps with laughing boys and girls,

    "Down the rough slope the ponderous waggon rings,"

no--not rings--for Beattie, in that admirable line, lets us hear a cart going out empty in
the morning--but with a cheerful dull sound, ploughing along the black soil, the clean dirt
almost up to the axletree, and then, as the wheels, rimmed you might always think with silver,
reach the road, macadamised till it acts like a railway, how glides along downhill the moving
mountain! And see now, the growing Stack glittering with a charge of pitchforks! The trams
fly up from Dobbin's back, and a shoal of sheaves overflows the mire. Up they go, tossed from
sinewy arms like feathers, and the Stack grows before your eyes, fairly proportioned as a beehive,
without line or measure, but shaped by the look and the feel, true almost as the spring instinct
of the nest-building bird. And are we not heartily ashamed of ourselves, amidst this general
din of working mirthfulness, for having, but an hour ago, abused the jovial and generous Autumn,
and thanked Heaven that he was dead? Let us retire into the barn with Shoosy, and hide our blushes.

Comparisons are odoriferous, and therefore for one paragraph let us compare AUTUMN with SPRING.
Suppose ourselves sitting beneath THE SYCAMORE of Windermere! Poets call Spring Green-Mantle--and
true it is that the groundwork of his garb is green--even like that of the proud peacock's
changeful neck, when the creature treads in the circle of his own splendour, and the scholar
who may have forgotten his classics, has yet a dream of Juno and of her watchful Argus with
his hundred, his thousand eyes. But the coat of Spring, like that of Joseph, is a coat of many
colours. Call it patch-work if you choose,

    "And be yourself the great sublime you draw."

Some people look on nature with a milliner's or a mantua-maker's eye--arraying her in furbelows
and flounces. But use your own eyes and ours, and from beneath THE SYCAMORE let us two, sitting
together in amity, look lovingly on the SPRING. Felt ever your heart before, with such an emotion
of harmonious beauty, the exquisitely delicate distinctions of character among the lovely tribes
of trees! That is BELLE ISLE. Earliest to salute the vernal rainbow, with a glow of green gentle
as its own, is the lake-loving ALDER, whose home, too, is by the flowings of all the streams.
Just one degree fainter in its hue--or shall we rather say brighter--for we feel the difference
without knowing in what it lies--stands, by the Alder's rounded softness, the spiral LARCH,
all hung over its limber sprays, were you near enough to admire them, with cones of the Tyrian
dye. That stem, white as silver, and smooth as silk, seen so straight in the green sylvan light,
and there airily overarching the coppice with lambent tresses, such as fancy might picture
for the mermaid's hair, pleasant as is her life on that Fortunate Isle, is yet said by us,
who vainly attribute our own sadness to unsorrowing things--to belong to a Tree that weeps,--though
a weight of joy it is, and of exceeding gladness, that thus depresses the BIRCH'S pendent beauty,
till it droops--as we think--like that of a being overcome with grief! Seen standing all along
by themselves, with something of a foreign air, and an exotic expression, yet not unwelcome
or obtrusive among our indigenous fair forest-trees, twinkling to the touch of every wandering
wind, and restless even amidst what seemeth now to be everlasting rest, we cannot choose but
admire that somewhat darker grove of columnar Lombardy POPLARS. How comes it that some SYCAMORES
so much sooner than others salute the Spring? Yonder are some but budding, as if yet the frost
lay on the honey-dew that protects the beamy germs. There are others warming into expansion,
half-budded and half-leaved, with a various light of colour visible in that sun-glint distinctly
from afar. And in that nook of the still sunnier south, trending eastward, a few are almost
in their full summer foliage, and soon will the bees be swarming among their flowers. A HORSE
CHESTNUT has a grand oriental air, and like a satrap uplifts his green banner yellowing in
the light--that shows he belongs to the line of the Prophet. ELMS are then most magnificent--witness
Christ-Church walk--when they hang over head in heaven like the chancel of a cathedral. Yet
here, too, are the august--and methinks "a dim religious light" is in that vault of branches
just vivifying to the Spring, and though almost bare, tinged with a coming hue that ere long
will be majestic brightness. Those old OAKS seem sullen in the sunshine, and slow to put forth
their power, like the Spirit of the Land they emblem. But they, too, are relaxing from their
wonted sternness--soon will that faint green be a glorious yellow; and while the gold-laden
boughs stoop boldly to the storms with which they love to dally, bounds not the heart of every
Briton to the music of his national anthem,

    "Rule, Britannia,
    Britannia rules the waves!"

The ASH is a manly tree, but "dreigh and dour" in the leafing; and yonder stands an Ash-grove
like a forest of ships with bare poles in the docks of Liverpool. Yet like the town of Kilkenny

    "It shines well where it stands;"

and the bare grey-blue of the branches, apart but not repulsive, like some cunning discord
in music, deepens the harmony of the Isle of Groves. Contrast is one of the finest of all the
laws of association, as every philosopher, poet, and peasant kens. At this moment, it brings,
by the bonds of beauty, though many glades intervene, close beside that pale grey-blue leafless
Ash-Clump, that bright black-green PINE Clan, whose "leaf fadeth never," a glorious Scottish
tartan triumphing in the English woods. Though many glades intervene, we said; for thou seest
that BELLE ISLE is not all one various flush of wood, but bedropt all over--bedropt and besprinkled
with grass-gems, some cloud-shadowed, some tree-shaded, some mist-bedimmed, and some luminous
as small soil-suns, on which as the eye alights, it feels soothed and strengthened, and gifted
with a profounder power to see into the mystery of the beauty of nature. But what are those
living Hills of snow, or of some substance purer in its brightness even than any snow that
fades in one night on the mountain-top! Trees are they--fruit-trees--The WILD CHERRY, that
grows stately and widespreading even as the monarch of the wood--and can that be a load of
blossoms! Fairer never grew before poet's eye of old in the fabled Hesperides. See how what
we call snow brightens into pink--yet still the whole glory is white, and fadeth not away the
purity of the balmy snow-blush. Ay, balmy as the bliss breathing from virgin lips, when, moving
in the beauty left by her morning prayers, a glad fond daughter steals towards him on the feet
of light, and as his arms open to receive and return the blessing, lays her innocence with
smiles that are almost tears, within her father's bosom.

Shut your eyes--suppose five months gone--and lo! BELLE ISLE in Autumn, like a scene in another
hemisphere of our globe. There is a slight frost in the air, in the sky, on the lake, and mid-day
is as still as midnight. But, though still, it is cheerful; for close at hand Robin Redbreast--God
bless him!--is warbling on the copestone of that old barn gable; and though Millar-Ground Bay
is half a mile off, how distinct the clank of the two oars like one, accompanying that large
wood-boat on its slow voyage from Ambleside to Bowness, the metropolitan port of the Queen
of the Lakes. The water has lost, you see, its summer sunniness, yet it is as transparent as
ever it was in summer; and how close together seem, with their almost meeting shadows, the
two opposite shores! But we wish you to look at BELLE ISLE, though we ourselves are almost
afraid to do so, so transcendently glorious is the sight that we know will disturb us with
an emotion too deep to be endured.--Could you not think that a splendid sunset had fallen down
in fragments on the Isle called Beautiful, and set it all ablaze! The woods are on fire, yet
they burn not; beauty subdues while it fosters the flame; and there, as in a many-tented tabernacle,
has Colour pitched his royal residence, and reigns in glory beyond that of any Oriental king.
What are all the canopies, and balconies, and galleries of human state, all hung with the richest
drapery that ever the skill of Art, that Wizard, drew forth in gorgeous folds from his enchanted
loom, if ideally suspended in the air of imagination beside the sun-and-storm-stained furniture
of these Palaces of Autumn, framed by the Spirit of the Season, of living and dying umbrage,
for his latest delight, ere he move in annual migration, with all his Court, to some foreign
clime far beyond the seas! No names of trees are remembered--a glorious confusion comprehends
in one the whole leafy race--orange, and purple, and scarlet, and crimson, are all seen to
be there, and interfused through the silent splendour is aye felt the presence of that terrestrial
green, native and unextinguishable in earth's bosom, as that celestial blue is that of the
sky. That trance goes by, and the spirit, gradually filled with a stiller delight, takes down
all those tents into pieces, and contemplates the encampment with less of imagination, and
with more of love. It knows and blesses each one of those many glorious groves, each becoming,
as it gazes, less and less glorious, more and more beautiful; till memory revives all the happiest
and holiest hours of the Summer and the Spring, and re-peoples the melancholy umbrage with
a thousand visions of joy, that may return never more! Images, it may be, of forms and faces
now mouldering in the dust! For as human hearts have felt, and all human lips have declared--melancholy
making poets of us all, ay, even prophets--till the pensive air of Autumn has been filled with
the music of elegiac and foreboding hymns--as is the Race of Leaves--now old Homer speaks--so
is the Race of Men! Nor till time shall have an end, insensate will be any creature endowed
"with discourse of reason" to those mysterious misgivings, alternating with triumphant aspirations
more mysterious still, when the Religion of Nature leans in awe on the Religion of God, and
we hear the voice of both in such strains as these--the earthly, in its sadness, momentarily
deadening the divine:--

    "But when shall Spring visit the mouldering urn?
    Oh! when shall it dawn on the night of the grave?"

SOLILOQUY ON THE SEASONS.

SECOND RHAPSODY.

Have we not been speaking of all the Seasons as belonging to the masculine gender? They are
generally, we believe, in this country, painted in petticoats, apparently by bagmen, as may
be daily seen in the pretty prints that bedeck the paper-walls of the parlours of inns. Spring
is always there represented as a spanker in a blue symar, very pertly exposing her budding
breast, and her limbs from feet to fork, in a style that must be very offensive to the mealy-mouthed
members of that shamefaced corporation, the Society for the Suppression of Vice. She holds
a flower between her finger and her thumb, crocus, violet, or primrose; and though we verily
believe she means no harm, she no doubt does look rather leeringly upon you, like one of the
frail sisterhood of the Come-atables. Summer again is an enormous and monstrous mawsey, in
puris naturalibus, meant to image Musidora, or the Medicean, or rather the Hottentot Venus.

    "So stands the statue that enchants the world!"

She seems, at the very lightest, a good round half hundred heavier than Spring; and, when you
imagine her plunging into the pool, you think you hear a porpus. May no Damon run away with
her clothes, leaving behind in exchange his heart! Gadflies are rife in the dogdays, and should
one "imparadise himself in form of that sweet flesh," there will be a cry in the woods that
will speedily bring to her assistance Pan and all his Satyrs. Autumn is a motherly matron,
evidently enceinte, and, like Love and Charity, who probably are smiling on the opposite wall,
she has a brace of bouncing babies at her breast--in her right hand a formidable sickle, like
a Turkish scymitar--in her left an extraordinary utensil, bearing, we believe, the heathenish
appellation of cornucopia--on her back a sheaf of wheat--and on her head a diadem--planted
there by John Barleycorn. She is a fearsome dear; as ugly a customer as a lonely man would
wish to encounter beneath the light of a September moon. On her feet are bauchles--on her legs
huggers--and the breadth of her soles, and the thickness of her ankles, we leave to your own
conjectures. Her fine bust is conspicuous in an open laced boddice--and her huge hips are set
off to the biggest advantage, by a jacket that she seems to have picked up by the wayside,
after some jolly tar, on his return from a long voyage, had there been performing his toilet,
and, by getting rid of certain encumbrances, enabled to pursue his inland journey with less
resemblance than before to a walking scarecrow. Winter is a withered old beldam, too poor to
keep a cat, hurkling on her hunkers over a feeble fire of sticks, extinguished fast as it is
beeted, with a fizz in the melted snow which all around that unhoused wretchedness is indurated
with frost; while a blue pool close at hand is chained in iciness, and an old stump, half buried
in the drift. Poor old, miserable, cowering crone! One cannot look at her without unconsciously
putting one's hand in his pocket, and fumbling for a tester. Yes, there is pathos in the picture,
especially while, on turning round your head, you behold a big blockhead of a vulgar bagman,
with his coat-tails over his arms, warming his loathsome hideousness at a fire that would roast
an ox.

Such are the Seasons! And though we have spoken of them, as mere critics on art, somewhat superciliously,
yet there is almost always no inconsiderable merit in all prints, pictures, paintings, poems,
or prose-works, that--pardon our tautology--are popular with the people. The emblematical figments
now alluded to, have been the creations of persons of genius, who had never had access to the
works of the old masters; so that, though the conception is good, the execution is, in general,
far from perfect. Yet many a time, when lying at our ease in a Wayside Inn, stretched on three
wooden chairs, with a little round deal-table before us, well laden with oatmeal cakes and
cheese and butter, nor, you may be sure, without its "tappit hen"--have we after a long day's
journey--perhaps the longest day--

    "Through moors and mosses many, O,"

regarded with no imaginative spirit--when Joseph and his brethren were wanting--even such symbols
of the Seasons as these--while arose to gladden us many as fair an image as ever nature sent
from her woods and wildernesses to cheer the heart of her worshipper who, on his pilgrimage
to her loftiest shrines, and most majestic temples, spared not to stoop his head below the
lowest lintel, and held all men his equal who earned by honest industry the scanty fare which
they never ate without those holy words of supplication and thanksgiving, "Give us this day
our daily bread!"

Our memory is a treasure-house of written and unwritten poetry--the ingots, the gifts of the
great bards, and the bars of bullion--much of the coin our own--some of it borrowed mayhap,
but always on good security, and repaid with interest--a legal transaction, of which even a
not unwealthy man has no need to be ashamed--none of it stolen, nor yet found where the Highlandman
found the tongs. But our riches are like those that encumbered the floor of the Sanctum of
the Dey of Algiers, not very tidily arranged; and we are frequently foiled in our efforts to
lay our hand, for immediate use or ornament, on a ducat or a diamond, a pistole or a pearl,
a sovereign, or only his crown.

That picture is indistinctly and obscurely beautiful to the imagination, and there is not a
syllable about sex--though "ethereal mildness," which is an Impersonation, and hardly an Impersonation,
must be, it is felt, a Virgin Goddess, whom all the divinities that dwell between heaven and
earth must love. Never to our taste--but our taste is inferior to our feeling and our genius--though
you will seldom go far wrong even in trusting it--never had a poem a more beautiful beginning.
It is not simple--nor ought it to be--it is rich, and even gorgeous--for the Bard came to his
subject full of inspiration; and as it was the inspiration, here, not of profound thought,
but of passionate emotion, it was right that music at the very first moment should overflow
the page, and that it should be literally strewed with roses. An imperfect Impersonation is
often proof positive of the highest state of poetical enthusiasm. The forms of nature undergo
a half humanising process under the intensity of our love, yet still retain the character of
the insensate creation, thus affecting us with a sweet, strange, almost bewildering, blended
emotion that scarcely belongs to either separately, but to both together clings as to a phenomenon
that only the eye of genius sees, because only the soul of genius can give it a presence--though
afterwards all eyes dimly recognise it, on its being shown to them, as something more vivid
than their own faint experience, yet either kindred to it, or virtually one and the same. Almost
all human nature can, in some measure, understand and feel the most exquisite and recondite
image which only the rarest genius could produce. Were it not so, great poets might break their
harps, and go drown themselves in Helicon.

    "From brightening fields of ether fair disclosed,
    Child of the Sun, refulgent SUMMER comes,
    In pride of youth, and felt through Nature's depth:
    He comes attended by the sultry hours,
    And ever-fanning breezes, on his way;
    While, from his ardent look, the turning Spring
    Averts her blushful face, and earth, and skies,
    All smiling, to his hot dominion leaves."

Here the Impersonation is stronger--and perhaps the superior strength lies in the words "child
of the Sun." And here in the words describing Spring, she too is more of an Impersonation than
in the other passage--averting her blushful face from the Summer's ardent look. The poet having
made Summer masculine, very properly makes Spring feminine; and 'tis a jewel of a picture--for
ladies should always avert their blushful faces from the ardent looks of gentlemen. Thomson,
indeed, elsewhere says of an enamoured youth overpowered by the loving looks of his mistress,--

    "From the keen gaze her lover turns away,
    Full of the dear ecstatic power, and sick
    With sighing languishment."

This, we have heard, from experienced persons of both sexes, is as delicate as it is natural;
but for our own simple and single selves, we never remember having got sick on any such occasion.
Much agitated, we cannot deny--if we did, the most credulous would not credit us--much agitated
we have been, when our lady-love, not contented with fixing upon us her dove-eyes, began billing
and cooing in a style from which the cushat might have taken a lesson with advantage, that
she might the better perform her innocent part on her first assignation with her affianced
in the pine-grove on St Valentine's day; but never in all our long lives got we absolutely
sick--nor even squeamish--never were we obliged to turn away with our hand to our mouth--but,
on the contrary, we were commonly as brisk as a bee at a pot of honey; or, if that be too luscious
a simile, as brisk as that same wonderful insect murmuring for a few moments round and round
a rose-bush, and then settling himself down seriously to work, as mute as a mouse, among the
half-blown petals. However, we are not now writing our Confessions--and what we wished to say
about this passage is, that in it the one sex is represented as turning away the face from
that of the other, which may be all natural enough, though polite on the gentleman's part we
can never call it; and, had the female virgin done so, we cannot help thinking it would have
read better in poetry. But for Spring to avert his blushful face from the ardent looks of Summer,
has on us the effect of making both Seasons seem simpletons. Spring, in the character of "ethereal
mildness," was unquestionably a female; but here she is "unsexed from the crown to the toe,"
and changed into an awkward hobbletehoy, who, having passed his boyhood in the country, is
a booby who blushes black at the gaze of his own brother, and if brought into the company of
the lasses, would not fail to faint away in a fit, nor revive till his face felt a pitcherful
of cold water.

    "Crown'd with the sickle and the wheaten sheaf,
    While Autumn, nodding o'er the yellow plain,
    Comes jovial on," &c.,

is, we think, bad. The Impersonation here is complete, and though the sex of Autumn is not
mentioned, it is manifestly meant to be male. So far, there is nothing amiss either one way
or another. But "nodding o'er the yellow plain" is a mere statement of a fact in nature--and
descriptive of the growing and ripening or ripened harvest--whereas it is applied here to Autumn,
as a figure who "comes jovial on." This is not obscurity--or indistinctness--which, as we have
said before, is often a great beauty in Impersonation; but it is an inconsistency and a contradiction--and
therefore indefensible on any ground either of conception or expression.

"There are no such essential vices as this in the "Castle of
Indolence"--for by that time Thomson had subjected his inspiration to
thought--and his poetry, guided and guarded by philosophy, became
celestial as an angel's song. Thus passed the time,
    Till through the lucid chambers of the south
    Look'd out the joyous Spring, look'd out, and smiled!"

Divine inspiration indeed! Poetry, that if read by the bedside of a dying lover of nature, might

    "Create a soul
    Under the ribs of death!"

What in the name of goodness makes us suppose that a mean, and miserable November day, even
while we are thus Rhapsodising, is drizzling all Edinburgh with the worst of all imaginable
Scottish mists--an Easterly Haur? We know that he infests all the year, but shows his poor
spite in its bleakest bitterness in March and in November. Earth and heaven are not only not
worth looking at in an Easterly Haur, but the Visible is absolute wretchedness, and people
wonder why they were born. The visitation begins with a sort of characterless haze, waxing
more and more wetly obscure, till you know not whether it be rain, snow, or sleet, that drenches
your clothes in dampness, till you feel it in your skin, then in your flesh, then in your bones,
then in your marrow, and then in your mind. Your blinking eyes have it too--and so, shut it
as you will, has your moping mouth. Yet the streets, though looking blue, are not puddled,
and the dead cat lies dry in the gutter. There is no eavesdropping--no gushing of waterspouts.
To say it rained would be no breach of veracity, but a mere misstatement of a melancholy fact.
The truth is, that the weather cannot rain, but keeps spit, spit, spitting, in a style sufficient
to irritate Socrates--or even Moses himself; and yet true, veritable, sincere, genuine, and
authentic Rain could not--or if he could would not--so thoroughly soak you and your whole wardrobe,
were you to allow him a day to do it, as that shabby imitation of a tenth-rate shower, in about
the time of a usual sized sermon. So much cold and so much wet, with so little to show for
it, is a disgrace to the atmosphere, which it will take weeks of the sunniest the weather can
afford to wipe off. But the stores of sunniness which it is in the power of Winter in this
northern latitude to accumulate, cannot be immense; and therefore we verily believe that it
would be too much to expect that it ever can make amends for the hideous horrors of this Easterly
Haur. The Cut-throat!

On such days suicides rush to judgment. That sin is mysterious as insanity--their graves are
unintelligible as the cells in Bedlam. Oh! the brain and the heart of man! Therein is the only
Hell. Small these regions in space, and of narrow room--but haunted may they be with all the
Fiends and all the Furies. A few nerves transmit to the soul despair or bliss. At the touch
of something--whence and wherefore sent, who can say--something that serenes or troubles, soothes
or jars--she soars up into life and light, just as you may have seen a dove suddenly cleave
the sunshine--or down she dives into death and darkness, like a shot eagle tumbling into the sea!

Materialism! Immaterialism! Why should mortals, whom conscience tells that they are immortals,
bewildered and bewildering ponder upon the dust! Do your duty to God and man, and fear not
that, when that dust dies, the spirit that breathed by it will live for ever. Feels not that
spirit its immortality in each sacred thought? When did ever religious soul fear annihilation?
Or shudder to think that, having once known, it could ever forget God? Such forgetfulness is
in the idea of eternal death. Therefore is eternal death impossible to us who can hold communion
with our Maker. Our knowledge of Him--dim and remote though it be--is a God-given pledge that
He will redeem us from the doom of the grave.

Let us then, and all our friends, believe, with Coleridge, in his beautiful poem of the "Nightingale,"
that

    "In Nature there is nothing melancholy,"

not even November. The disease of the body may cause disease in the soul; yet not the less
trust we in the mercy of the merciful--not the less strive we to keep feeding and trimming
that spiritual lamp which is within us, even when it flickers feebly in the dampy gloom, like
an earthly lamp left in a vaulted sepulchre, about to die among the dead. Heaven seems to have
placed a power in our Will as mighty as it is mysterious. Call it not Liberty, lest you should
wax proud; call it not Necessity, lest you should despair. But turn from the oracles of man--still
dim even in their clearest responses--to the Oracles of God, which are never dark; or if so, but

    "Dark with excessive bright"

to eyes not constantly accustomed to sustain the splendour. Bury all your books, when you feel
the night of scepticism gathering around you--bury them all, powerful though you may have deemed
their spells to illuminate the unfathomable--open your Bible, and all the spiritual world will
be as bright as day.

The disease of the body may cause disease to the soul. Ay, madness. Some rapture in the soul
makes the brain numb, and thence sudden or lingering death;--some rupture in the brain makes
the soul insane, and thence life worse than death, and haunted by horrors beyond what is dreamt
of the grave and all its corruption. Perhaps the line fullest of meaning that ever was written,
is--

    "Mens sana in corpore sano."

When nature feels the flow of its vital blood pure and unimpeded, what unutterable gladness
bathes the spirit in that one feeling of--health! Then the mere consciousness of existence
is like that emotion which Milton speaks of as breathed from the bowers of Paradise--

    "Vernal delight and joy, able to drive
    All sadness but despair"

It does more--for despair itself cannot prevail against it. What a dawn of bliss rises upon
us with the dawn of light, when our life is healthful as the sun! Then

    "It feels that it is greater than it knows."

God created the earth and the air beautiful through the senses; and at the uplifting of a little
lid, a whole flood of imagery is let in upon the spirit, all of which becomes part of its very
self, as if the enjoying and the enjoyed were one. Health flies away like an angel, and her
absence disenchants the earth. What shadows then pass over the ethereal surface of the spirit,
from the breath of disordered matter!--from the first scarcely-felt breath of despondency,
to the last scowling blackness of despair! Often men know not what power placed the fatal fetters
upon them--they see even that a link may be open, and that one effort might fling off the bondage;
but their souls are in slavery, and will not be free. Till something like a fresh wind, or
a sudden sunbeam, comes across them, and in a moment their whole existence is changed, and
they see the very vanishing of their most dismal and desperate dream.

"Somewhat too much of this"--so let us strike the chords to a merrier measure--to a "livelier
lilt"--as suits the variable spirit of our Soliloquy. Be it observed, then, that the sole certain
way of getting rid of the blue devils, is to drown them in a shower-bath. You would not suppose
that we are subject to the blue devils? Yet we are sometimes their very slave. When driven
to it by their lash, every occupation, which when free we resort to as pastime, becomes taskwork;
nor will these dogged masters suffer us to purchase emancipation with the proceeds of the toil
of our groaning genius. But whenever the worst comes to the worst, and we almost wish to die
so that we might escape the galling pressure of our chains, we sport buff, and into the shower-bath.
Yet such is the weakness of poor human nature, that like a criminal on the scaffold, shifting
the signal kerchief from hand to hand, much to the irritation of his excellency the hangman,
one of the most impatient of men--and more to the satisfaction of the crowd, the most patient
of men and women--we often stand shut up in that sentry-looking canvass box, dexterously and
sinistrously fingering the string, perhaps for five shrinking, and shuddering, and grueing
minutes, ere we can summon up desperation to pull down upon ourselves the rushing waterfall!
Soon as the agony is over, we bounce out the colour of beetroot, and survey ourselves in a
five-foot mirror, with an amazement that, on each successive exhibition, is still as fresh
as when we first experienced it,

    "In life's morning march, when our spirits were young."

By-and-by we assume the similitude of an immense boiled lobster that has leapt out of the pan--and
then, seeming for a while to be an emblematical or symbolical representation of the setting
Sun, we sober down into a faint pink, like that of the Morn, and finally subside into our own
permanent flesh-light, which, as we turn our back upon ourselves, after the fashion of some
of his majesty's ministers, reminds us of that line in Cowper descriptive of the November Moon--

    "Resplendent less, but of an ampler round!"

Like that of the eagle, our youth is renewed--we feel strong as the horse in Homer--a divine
glow permeates our being, as if it were the subdued spiritual essence of caloric. An intense
feeling of self--not self-love, mind ye, and the farthest state imaginable in this wide world
from selfishness--elevates us far up above the clouds, into the loftiest regions of the sunny
blue, and we seem to breathe an atmosphere, of which every glorious gulp is inspiration. Despondency
is thrown to the dogs. Despair appears in his true colours, a more grotesque idiot than Grimaldi,
and we treat him with a guffaw. All ante-bath difficulties seem now--what they really are--facilities
of which we are by far too much elated to avail ourselves; dangers that used to appear appalling
are felt now to be lulling securities--obstacles, like mountains, lying in our way of life
as we walked towards the temple of Apollo or Plutus, we smile at the idea of surmounting, so
molehillish do they look, and we kick them aside like an old footstool. Let the country ask
us for a scheme to pay off the national debt--there she has it; do you request us to have the
kindness to leap over the moon--here we go; excellent Mr Blackwood has but to say the word,
and a ready-made Leading Article is in his hand, promotive of the sale of countless numbers
of "my Magazine," and of the happiness of countless numbers of mankind. We feel--and the feeling
proves the fact--as bold as Joshua the son of Nun--as brave as David the son of Jesse--as wise
as Solomon the son of David--and as proud as Nebuchadnezzar the son of Nebopolazzar. We survey
our image in the mirror--and think of Adam. We put ourselves into the posture of the Belvidere
Apollo.

Up four flight of stairs we fly--for the bath is in the double-sunk story--ten steps at a bound--and
in five minutes have devoured one quartern loaf, six eggs, and a rizzar, washing all over with
a punch-bowl of congou and a tea-bowl of coffee.

                      "Enormous breakfast,
    Wild without rule or art! Where nature plays
    Her virgin fancies."

And then, leaning back on our Easy-chair, we perform an exploit beyond the reach of Euclid--why,
WE SQUARE THE CIRCLE, and to the utter demolition of our admirable friend Sir David Brewster's
diatribe, in a late number of the Quarterly Review, on the indifference of Government to men
of science, chuckle over our nobly-won order K.C.C.B., Knight Companion of the Cold Bath.

Many analogies between the seasons of the year and the seasons of life, being natural, have
been a frequent theme of poetry in all countries. Had the gods made us poetical, we should
now have poured forth, a few exquisite illustrations of some that are very affecting and impressive.
It has, however, often been felt by us, that not a few of those one meets with in the lamentations
of whey-faced sentimentalists, are false or fantastic, and do equal violence to all the seasons,
both of the year and of life. These gentry have been especially silly upon the similitude of
Old Age to Winter. Winter, in external nature, is not the season of decay. An old tree, for
example, in the very dead of winter, as it is figuratively called, though bare of leaves, is
full of life. The sap, indeed, has sunk down from his bole and branches--down into his toes
or roots. But there it is, ready, in due time, to reascend. Not so with an old man--the present
company always excepted;--his sap is not sunk down to his toes, but much of it is gone clean
out of the system--therefore, individual natural objects in Winter are not analogically emblematical
of people stricken in years. Far less does the Winter itself of the year, considered as a season,
resemble the old age of life considered as a season. To what peculiarities, pray, in the character
and conduct of aged gentlemen in general, do rain, sleet, hail, frost, ice, snow, winds, blasts,
storms, hurricanes, and occasional thunder and lightning, bear analogy? We pause for a reply.
Old men's heads, it is true, are frequently white, though more frequently bald, and their blood
is not so hot as when they were springalds. But though there be no great harm in likening a
sprinkling of white hair on mine ancient's temples to the appearance of the surface of the
earth, flat or mountainous, after a slight fall of snow--and indeed, in an impassioned state
of mind, we feel a moral beauty in such poetical expression as "sorrow shedding on the head
of youth its untimely snows"--yet the natural propriety of such an image, so far from justifying
the assertion of a general analogy between Winter and Old Age, proves that the analogies between
them are in fact very few, and felt to be analogies at all, only when touched upon very seldom,
and very slightly, and, for the most part, very vaguely--the truth being, that they scarcely
exist at all in reality, but have an existence given to them by the power of creative passion,
which often works like genius. Shakespeare knew this well--as he knew everything else; and,
accordingly, he gives us Seven Ages of Life--not Four Seasons. But how finely does he sometimes,
by the mere use of the names of the Seasons of the Year, intensify to our imagination the mental
state to which they are for the moment felt to be analogous?--

    "Now is the winter of our discontent
    Made glorious summer by the sun of York!"

That will do. The feeling he wished to inspire, is inspired; and the further analogical images
which follow add nothing to our feeling, though they show the strength and depth of his into
whose lips they are put. A bungler would have bored us with ever so many ramifications of the
same idea, on one of which, in our weariness, we might have wished him hanged by the neck till
he was dead.

We are an Old Man, and though single not singular; yet, without vanity, we think ourselves
entitled to say, that we are no more like Winter, in particular, than we are like Spring, Summer,
or Autumn. The truth is, that we are much less like any one of the Seasons, than we are like
the whole Set. Is not Spring sharp? So are we. Is not Spring snappish? So are we. Is not Spring
boisterous? So are we. Is not Spring "beautiful exceedingly?" So are we. Is not Spring capricious?
So are we. Is not Spring, at times, the gladdest, gayest, gentlest, mildest, meekest, modestest,
softest, sweetest, and sunniest of all God's creatures that steal along the face of the earth?
So are we. So much for our similitude--a staring and striking one--to Spring. But were you
to stop there, what an inadequate idea would you have of our character! For only ask your senses,
and they will tell you that we are much liker Summer. Is not Summer often infernally hot? So
are we. Is not Summer sometimes cool as its own cucumbers? So are we. Does not Summer love
the shade? So do we. Is not Summer, nevertheless, somewhat "too much i' the sun?" So are we.
Is not Summer famous for its thunder and lightning? So are we. Is not Summer, when he chooses,
still, silent, and serene as a sleeping seraph? And so too--when Christopher chooses--are not
we? Though, with keen remorse we confess it, that, when suddenly wakened, we are too often
more like a fury or a fiend--and that completes the likeness; for all who know a Scottish Summer,
with one voice exclaim--"So is he!" But our portrait is but half-drawn; you know but a moiety
of our character. Is Autumn jovial?--ask Thomson--so are we. Is Autumn melancholy?--ask Alison
and Gillespie--so are we. Is Autumn bright?--ask the woods and groves--so are we. Is Autumn
rich?--ask the whole world--so are we. Does Autumn rejoice in the yellow grain and the golden
vintage, that, stored up in his great Magazine of Nature, are lavishly thence dispensed to
all that hunger, and quench the thirst of the nations? So do we. After that, no one can be
so pur-and-bat-blind as not see that North is, in very truth, Autumn's gracious self, rather
than his Likeness or Eidolon.

So are we. The great author of the "Seasons" says, that Winter and his train

        "Exalt the soul to solemn thought,
    And heavenly musing!"

So do we. And, "lest aught less great should stamp us mortal," here we conclude the comparison,
dashed off in few lines by the hand of a great master, and ask, Is not North, Winter? Thus,
listener after our own heart! thou feelest that we are imaged aright in all our attributes
neither by Spring, nor Summer, nor Autumn, nor Winter; but that the character of Christopher
is shadowed forth and reflected by the Entire Year.

A FEW WORDS ON THOMSON.

Poetry, one might imagine, must be full of Snow-scenes. If so, they have almost all dissolved--melted
away from our memory--as the transiencies in nature do which they coldly pictured. Thomson's
"Winter," of course, we do not include in our obliviousness--and from Cowper's "Task" we might
quote many a most picturesque Snow-piece. But have frost and snow been done full justice to
by them or any other of our poets? They have been well spoken of by two--Southey and Coleridge--of
whose most poetical compositions respectively, "Thalaba" and the "Ancient Mariner," in some
future volume we may dissert. Thomson's genius does not so often delight us by exquisite minute
touches in the description of nature as that of Cowper. It loves to paint on a great scale,
and to dash objects off sweepingly by bold strokes--such, indeed, as have almost always distinguished
the mighty masters of the lyre and the rainbow. Cowper sets nature before your eyes--Thomson
before your imagination. Which do you prefer? Both. Be assured that both poets had pored night
and day upon her--in all her aspects--and that she had revealed herself fully to both. But
they, in their religion, elected different modes of worship--and both were worthy of the mighty
mother. In one mood of mind we love Cowper best, in another Thomson. Sometimes the Seasons
are almost a Task--and sometimes the Task is out of Season. There is delightful distinctness
in all the pictures of the Bard of Olney--glorious gloom or glimmer in most of those of the
Bard of Ednam. Cowper paints trees--Thomson woods. Thomson paints, in a few wondrous lines,
rivers from source to sea, like the mighty Burrampooter--Cowper, in many no very wondrous lines,
brightens up one bend of a stream, or awakens our fancy to the murmur of some single waterfall.
But a truce to antithesis--a deceptive style of criticism--and see how Thomson sings of Snow.

Nothing can be more vivid. 'Tis of the nature of an ocular spectrum.

Here is a touch like one of Cowper's. Note the beauty of the epithet "brown," where all that
is motionless is white--

                "The foodless wilds
    Pour forth their brown inhabitants."

That one word proves the poet. Does it not?

The entire description from which these two sentences are selected by memory--a critic you
may always trust to--is admirable; except in one or two places where Thomson seems to have
striven to be strongly pathetic, and where he seems to us to have overshot his mark, and to
have ceased to be perfectly natural.

The image of the ox is as good as possible. We see him, and could paint him in oils. But, to
our mind, the notion of his "demanding the fruit of all his toils"--to which we freely acknowledge
the worthy animal was well entitled--sounds, as it is here expressed, rather fantastical. Call
it doubtful--for Jemmy was never utterly in the wrong in any sentiment.

The second line is perfect; but the Ettrick Shepherd agreed with us--one night at Ambrose's--that
the third was not quite right. Sheep, he agreed with us, do not deliver themselves up to despair
under any circumstances; and here Thomson transferred what would have been his own feeling
in a corresponding condition, to animals who dreadlessly follow their instincts. Thomson redeems
himself in what immediately succeeds--

                          "Then, sad dispersed,
    Dig for the wither'd herb through heaps of snow."

For, as they disperse, they do look very sad--and no doubt are so; but had they been in despair,
they would not so readily, and constantly, and uniformly, and successfully, have taken to the
digging, but whole flocks had perished.

You will not, we are confident, be angry with us for quoting a few lines that occur soon after,
and which are a noble example of the sweeping style of description which, we said above, characterises
the genius of this sublime poet:--

                  "From the bellowing east,
    In this dire season, oft the whirlwind's wing
    Sweeps up the burden of whole wintry plains
    At one wide waft, and o'er the hapless flocks,
    Hid in the hollow of two neighbouring hills,
    The billowy tempest whelms; till, upward urged,
    The valley to a shining mountain swells,
    Tipp'd with a wreath high-curling in the sky."

Well might the Bard, with such a snow-storm in his imagination, when telling the shepherds
to be kind to their helpless charge, addressed them in language which, in an ordinary mood,
would have been bombast. "Shepherds," says he, "baffle the raging year!" How? Why merely by
filling their pens with food. But the whirlwind was up--

    "Far off its coming groan'd,"

and the poet was inspired. Had he not been so, he had not cried, "Baffle the raging year;"
and if you be not so, you will think it a most absurd expression.

Did you ever see water beginning to change itself into ice? Yes. Then try to describe the sight.
Success in that trial will prove you a poet. People do not prove themselves poets only by writing
long poems. A line--two words--may show that they are the Muse's sons. How exquisitely does
Burns picture to our eyes moonlight water undergoing an ice-change!

    "The chilly frost beneath the silver beam,
    Crept, gently crusting o'er the glittering stream!"

Thomson does it with an almost finer spirit of perception--or conception--or memory--or whatever
else you choose to call it; for our part, we call it genius--

    "An icy gale, oft shifting, o'er the pool
    Breathes a blue film, and in its mid career
    Arrests the bickering stream."

And afterwards, having frozen the entire stream into a "crystal pavement," how strongly doth
he conclude thus--

    "The whole imprison'd river growls below."

Here, again, 'tis pleasant to see the peculiar genius of Cowper contrasted with that of Thomson.
The gentle Cowper delighting, for the most part, in tranquil images--for his life was passed
amidst tranquil nature; the enthusiastic Thomson, more pleased with images of power. Cowper says--

                        "On the flood,
    Indurated and fixed, the snowy weight
    Lies undissolved, while silently beneath,
    And unperceived, the current steals away."

How many thousand times the lines we are now going to quote have been quoted, nobody can tell;
but we quote them once more for the purpose of asking you, if you think that any one poet of
this age could have written them--could have chilled one's very blood with such intense feeling
of cold! Not one.

    "In these fell regions, in Arzina caught,
    And to the stony deep his idle ship
    Immediate seal'd, he with his hapless crew,
    Each full exerted at his several task,
    Froze into statues; to the cordage glued
    The sailor, and the pilot to the helm!"

The oftener--the more we read the "Winter"--especially the last two or three hundred lines--the
angrier is our wonder with Wordsworth for asserting that Thomson owed the national popularity
that his "Winter" immediately won, to his "commonplace sentimentalities, and his vicious style!"
Yet true it is, that he was sometimes guilty of both; and, but for his transcendent genius,
they might have obscured the lustre of his fame. But such sins are not very frequent in the
"Seasons," and were all committed in the glow of that fine and bold enthusiasm, which to his
imagination arrayed all things, and all words, in a light that seemed to him at the time to
be poetry--though sometimes it was but "false glitter." Admitting, then, that sometimes the
style of the "Seasons" is somewhat too florid, we must not criticise single and separate passages,
without holding in mind the character of the poet's genius and his inspirations. He luxuriates--he
revels--he wantons--at once with an imaginative and a sensuous delight in nature. Besides,
he was but young; and his great work was his first. He had not philosophised his poetical language,
as Wordsworth himself has done, after long years of profoundest study of the laws of thought
and speech. But in such study, while much is gained, may not something be lost? And is there
not a charm in the free, flowing, chartered libertinism of the diction and versification of
the "Seasons"--above all, in the closing strains of the "Winter," and in the whole of the "Hymn,"
which inspires a delight and wonder seldom breathed upon us--glorious poem, on the whole, as
it is--from the more measured march of the "Excursion?"

All those children of the Pensive Public who have been much at school, know Thomson's description
of the wolves among the Alps, Apennines, and Pyrenees,

    "Cruel as death, and hungry as the grave!
    Burning for blood, bony and gaunt and grim!" &c.

The first fifteen lines are equal to anything in the whole range of English descriptive poetry;
but the last ten are positively bad. Here they are:--

    "The godlike face of man avails him nought!
    Even beauty, force divine! at whose bright glance
    The generous lion stands in soften'd gaze,
    Now bleeds, a hapless undistinguish'd prey.
    But if, apprised of the severe attack,
    The country be shut up, lured by the scent,
    On churchyard drear (inhuman to relate!)
    The disappointed prowlers fall, and dig
    The shrouded body from the grave; o'er which,
    Mix'd with foul shades and frighted ghosts, they howl."

Wild beasts do not like the look of the human eye--they think us ugly customers--and sometimes
stand shilly-shallying in our presence, in an awkward but alarming attitude, of hunger mixed
with fear. A single wolf seldom or never attacks a man. He cannot stand the face. But a person
would need to have a godlike face indeed to terrify therewith an army of wolves some thousand
strong. It would be the height of presumption in any man, though beautiful as Moore thought
Byron, to attempt it. If so, then

    "The godlike face of man avails him nought,"

is, under the circumstances, ludicrous. Still more so is the trash about "beauty, force divine!"
It is too much to expect of an army of wolves some thousand strong, "and hungry as the grave,"
that they should all fall down on their knees before a sweet morsel of flesh and blood, merely
because the young lady was so beautiful that she might have sat to Sir Thomas Lawrence for
a frontispiece to Mr Watts's "Souvenir." 'Tis all stuff, too, about the generous lion standing
in softened gaze at beauty's bright glance. True, he has been known to look with a certain
sort of soft surliness upon a pretty Caffre girl, and to walk past without eating her--but
simply because, an hour or two before, he had dined on a Hottentot Venus. The secret lay not
in his heart, but in his stomach. Still the notion is a popular one, and how exquisitely has
Spenser changed it into the divinest poetry in the character of the attendant lion of

    "Heavenly Una, with her milk-white lamb!"

But Thomson, so far from making poetry of it in this passage, has vulgarised and blurred by
it the natural and inevitable emotion of terror and pity. Famished wolves howking up the dead
is a dreadful image--but "inhuman to relate," is not an expression heavily laden with meaning;
and the sudden, abrupt, violent, and, as we feel, unnatural introduction of ideas purely superstitious,
at the close, is revolting, and miserably mars the terrible truth.

    "Mix'd with foul shades and frighted ghosts, they howl."

Why, pray, are the shades foul, and the ghosts only frightened? And wherein lies the specific
difference between a shade and a ghost? Besides, if the ghosts were frightened, which they
had good reason to be, why were not they off? We have frequently read of their wandering far
from home, on occasions when they had no such excellent excuse to offer. This line, therefore,
we have taken the liberty to erase from our pocket-copy of the "Seasons"--and to draw a few
keelavine strokes over the rest of the passage--beginning with "man's godlike face."

Go read, then, the opening of "Winter," and acknowledge that, of all climates and all countries,
there are none within any of the zones of the earth that will bear a moment's comparison with
those of Scotland. Forget the people if you can, and think only of the region. The lovely Lowlands
undulating away into the glorious Highlands--the spirit of sublimity and the spirit of beauty
one and the same, as it blends them in indissoluble union. Bury us alive in the dungeon's gloom--incommunicable
with the light of day as the grave--it could not seal our eyes to the sight of Scotland. We
should see it still by rising or by setting suns. Whatever blessed scene we chose to call on
would become an instant apparition. Nor in that thick-ribbed vault would our eyes be deaf to
her rivers and her seas. We should say our prayers to their music, and to the voice of the
thunder on a hundred hills. We stand now in no need of senses. They are waxing dim--but our
spirit may continue to brighten long as the light of love is allowed to dwell therein, thence
proceeding over nature like a victorious morn.

There are many beautiful passages in the poets about RAIN; but who ever sang its advent so
passionately as in these strains?--

                          "The effusive south
    Warms the wide air, and o'er the void of heaven
    Breathes the big clouds with vernal showers distent.
    At first a dusky wreath they seem to rise,
    Scarce staining ether; but by swift degrees,
    In heaps on heaps, the doubling vapour sails
    Along the loaded sky, and mingling deep
    Sits on th' horizon round a settled gloom:
    Not such as wintry storms on mortals shed,
    Oppressing life; but lovely, gentle, kind,
    And full of every hope and every joy,
    The wish of nature. Gradual sinks the breeze
    Into a perfect calm, that not a breath
    Is heard to quiver through the closing woods,
    Or rustling turn the many-twinkling leaves
    Of aspen tall. Th' uncurling floods diffused
    In glassy breadth, seem through delusive lapse
    Forgetful of their course. 'Tis silence all
    And pleasing expectation. Herds and flocks
    Drop the dry sprig, and, mute-imploring, eye
    The falling verdure!"

All that follows is, you know, as good--better it cannot be--till we come to the close, the
perfection of poetry, and then sally out into the shower, and join the hymn of earth to heaven--

    "The stealing shower is scarce to patter heard
    By such as wander through the forest walks,
    Beneath th' umbrageous multitude of leaves.
    But who can hold the shade, while heaven descends
    In universal bounty, shedding herbs,
    And fruits, and flowers, on Nature's ample lap?
    Swift Fancy fired anticipates their growth;
    And, while the milky nutriment distils,
    Beholds the kindling country colour round."

Thomson, they say, was too fond of epithets. Not he, indeed. Strike out one of the many there--and
your sconce shall feel the crutch. A poet less conversant with nature would have feared to
say, "sits on the horizon round a settled gloom," or rather, he would not have seen or thought
it was a settled gloom; and, therefore, he could not have said--

        ----"But lovely, gentle, kind,
    And full of every hope and every joy,
    The wish of Nature."

Leigh Hunt--most vivid of poets, and most cordial of critics--somewhere finely speaks of a
ghastly line in a poem of Keats'--

    "Riding to Florence with the murder'd man;"

that is, the man about to be murdered--imagination conceiving as one, doom and death.

The verdure is seen in the shower--to be the very shower--by the poet at least--perhaps by
the cattle, in their thirsty hunger forgetful of the brown ground, and swallowing the dropping
herbage. The birds had not been so sorely distressed by the drought as the beasts, and therefore
the poet speaks of them, not as relieved from misery, but as visited with gladness--

                "Hush'd in short suspense,
    The plumy people streak their wings with oil,
    To throw the lucid moisture trickling off,
    And wait th' approaching sign, to strike, at once,
    Into the general choir."

Then, and not till then, the humane poet bethinks him of the insensate earth--insensate not;
for beast and bird being satisfied, and lowing and singing in their gratitude, so do the places
of their habitation yearn for the blessing--

              "E'en mountains, vales,
    And forests, seem impatient, to demand
    The promised sweetness."

The religious Poet then speaks for his kind--and says devoutly--

            "Man superior walks
    Amid the glad creation, musing praise,
    And looking lively gratitude."

In that mood he is justified to feast his fancy with images of the beauty as well as the bounty
of nature; and genius in one line has concentrated them all--

    "Beholds the kindling country colour round."

'Tis "an a' day's rain"--and "the well-showered earth is deep-enriched with vegetable life."
And what kind of an evening? We have seen many such--and every succeeding one more beautiful,
more glorious to our eyes than another--because of these words in which the beauty and the
glory of one and all are enshrined--

    "Till, in the western sky, the downward sun
    Looks out, effulgent, from amid the flush
    Of broken clouds, gay-shifting to his beam.
    The rapid radiance, instantaneous, strikes
    Th' illumined mountain, through the forest streams,
    Shakes on the floods, and in a yellow mist,
    Far smoking o'er th' interminable plain,
    In twinkling myriads lights the dewy gems.
    Moist, bright, and green, the landscape laughs around.
    Full swell the woods; their every music wakes,
    Mix'd in wild concert with the warbling brooks
    Increased, the distant bleatings of the hills,
    And hollow lows responsive from the vales,
    Whence, blending all, the sweeten'd zephyr springs.
    Meantime, refracted from yon eastern cloud,
    Bestriding earth, the grand ethereal bow
    Shoots up immense; and every hue unfolds
    In fair proportion, running from the red
    To where the violet fades into the sky."

How do you like our recitation of that surpassing strain? Every shade of feeling should have
its shade of sound--every pause its silence. But these must all come and go, untaught, unbidden,
from the fulness of the heart. Then indeed, and not till then, can words be said to be set
to music--to a celestial sing-song.

The mighty Minstrel recited old Ballads with a warlike march of sound that made one's heart
leap, while his usually sweet smile was drawn in, and disappeared among the glooms that sternly
gathered about his lowering brows, and gave his whole aspect a most heroic character. Rude
verses, that from ordinary lips would have been almost meaningless, from his came inspired
with passion. Sir Philip Sidney, who said that "Chevy Chase" roused him like the sound of a
trumpet, had he heard Sir Walter Scott recite it, would have gone distracted. Yet the "best
judges" said he murdered his own poetry--we say about as much as Homer. Wordsworth recites
his own Poetry (catch him reciting any other) magnificently--while his eyes seem blind to all
outward objects, like those of a somnambulist. Coleridge was the sweetest of sing-songers--and
his silver voice "warbled melody." Next to theirs, we believe our own recitation of Poetry
to be the most impressive heard in modern times, though we cannot deny that the leathern-eared
have pronounced it detestable, and the long-eared ludicrous; their delight being in what is
called Elocution, as it is taught by player-folk.

O friendly reader of these our Recreations! thou needst not to be told--yet in love let us
tell thee--that there are a thousand ways of dealing in description with Nature, so as to make
her poetical; but sentiment there always must be, else it is stark nought. You may infuse the
sentiment by a single touch--by a ray of light no thicker, nor one thousandth part so thick,
as the finest needle ever silk-threaded by lady's finger; or you may dance it in with a flutter
of sunbeams; or you may splash it in as with a gorgeous cloud-stain stolen from sunset; or
you may bathe it in with a shred of the rainbow. Perhaps the highest power of all possessed
by the sons of song, is to breathe it in with the breath, to let it slip in with the light
of the common day!

Then some poets there are, who show you a scene all of a sudden, by means of a few magical
words--just as if you opened your eyes at their bidding--and in place of a blank, a world.
Others, again, as good and as great, create their world gradually before your eyes, for the
delight of your soul, that loves to gaze on the growing glory; but delight is lost in wonder,
and you know that they, too, are warlocks. Some heap image upon image, piles of imagery on
piles of imagery, as if they were ransacking and robbing, and red-reavering earth, sea, and
sky; yet all things there are consentaneous with one grand design, which, when consummated,
is a Whole that seems to typify the universe. Others give you but fragments--but such as awaken
imaginations of beauty and of power transcendent, like that famous Torso. And some show you
Nature glimmering beneath a veil which, nunlike, she has religiously taken; and then call not
Nature ideal only in that holy twilight, for then it is that she is spiritual, and we who belong
to her feel that we shall live for ever.

Thus--and in other wondrous ways--the great poets are the great painters, and so are they the
great musicians. But how they are so, some other time may we tell; suffice it now to say, that
as we listen to the mighty masters--"sole or responsive to each other's voice"--

    "Now, 'tis like all instruments,
    Now like a lonely lute;
    And now 'tis like an angel's song
    That bids the heavens be mute!"

Why will so many myriads of men and women, denied by nature "the vision and the faculty divine,"
persist in the delusion that they are poetising, while they are but versifying "this bright
and breathing world?" They see truly not even the outward objects of sight. But of all the
rare affinities and relationships in Nature, visible or audible to Fine-ear-and-Far-eye the
Poet, not a whisper--not a glimpse have they ever heard or seen, any more than had they been
born deaf-blind.

They paint a landscape, but nothing "prates of their whereabouts," while they were sitting
on a tripod, with their paper on their knees, drawing--their breath. For, in the front ground
is a castle, against which, if you offer to stir a step, you infallibly break your head, unless
providentially stopped by that extraordinary vegetable-looking substance, perhaps a tree, growing
bolt upright out of an intermediate stone, that has wedged itself in long after there had ceased
to be even standing-room in that strange theatre of nature. But down from "the swelling instep
of a mountain's foot," that has protruded itself through a wood, while the body of the mountain
prudently remains in the extreme distance, descends on you, ere you have recovered from your
unexpected encounter with the old Roman cement, an unconscionable cataract. There stands a
deer or goat, or rather some beast with horns, "strictly anonymous," placed for effect, contrary
to all cause, in a place where it seems as uncertain how he got in as it is certain that he
never can get out till he becomes a hippogriff.

The true poet, again, has such potent eyes, that when he lets down the lids, he sees just as
well, perhaps better than when they were up; for in that deep, earnest, inward gaze, the fluctuating
sea of scenery subsides into a settled calm, where all is harmony as well as beauty--order
as well as peace. What though he have been fated, through youth and manhood, to dwell in city
smoke? His childhood--his boyhood--were overhung with trees, and through its heart went the
murmur of waters. Then it is, we verily believe, that in all poets, is filled with images up
to the brim, Imagination's treasury. Genius, growing, and grown up to maturity, is still a
prodigal. But he draws on the Bank of Youth. His bills, whether at a short or long date, are
never dishonoured; nay, made payable at sight, they are as good as gold. Nor cares that Bank
for a run, made even in a panic, for besides bars and billets, and wedges and blocks of gold,
there are, unappreciable beyond the riches which against a time of trouble

    "The Sultaun hides in his ancestral tombs,"

jewels and diamonds sufficient

    "To ransom great kings from captivity."

We sometimes think that the power of painting Nature to the life, whether in her real or ideal
beauty (both belong to life,) is seldom evolved to its utmost, until the mind possessing it
is withdrawn in the body from all rural environment. It has not been so with Wordsworth, but
it was so with Milton. The descriptive poetry in "Comus" is indeed rich as rich may be, but
certainly not so great, perhaps not so beautiful, as that in "Paradise Lost."

It would seem to be so with all of us, small as well as great; and were we--Christopher North--to
compose a poem on Loch Skene, two thousand feet or so above the level of the sea, and some
miles from a house, we should desire to do so in a metropolitan cellar. Desire springs from
separation. The spirit seeks to unite itself to the beauty it loves, the grandeur it admires,
the sublimity it almost fears; and all these being o'er the hills and far away, or on the hills
cloud-hidden, why it--the spirit--makes itself wings--or rather wings grow up of themselves
in its passion, and naturewards it flies like a dove or an eagle. People looking at us believe
us present, but they never were so far mistaken in their lives; for in the Seamew are we sailing
with the tide through the moonshine on Loch Etive--or hanging o'er that gulf of peril on the
bosom of Skyroura.

We are sitting now in a dusky den--with our eyes shut--but we see the whole Highlands. Our
Highland Mountains are of the best possible magnitude--ranging between two and four thousand
feet high--and then in what multitudes! The more familiar you become with them, the mightier
they appear--and you feel that it is all sheer folly to seek to dwindle or dwarf them, by comparing
them as they rise before your eyes with your imagination of Mont Blanc and those eternal glaciers.
If you can bring them under your command, you are indeed a sovereign--and have a noble set
of subjects. In some weather they are of any height you choose to put them--say thirty thousand
feet--in other states of the atmosphere you think you could walk over their summits and down
into the region beyond in an hour. Try. We have seen Cruachan, during a whole black day, swollen
into such enormous bulk, that Loch Awe looked like but a sullen river at his base, her woods
bushes, and Kilchurn no bigger than a cottage. The whole visible scene was but he and his shadow.
They seemed to make the day black, rather than the day to make them so--and at nightfall he
took wider and loftier possession of the sky--the clouds congregated round without hiding his
summit, on which seemed to twinkle, like earth-lighted fires, a few uncertain stars. Rain drives
you into a shieling--and you sit there for an hour or two in eloquent confabulation with the
herdsman, your English against his Gaelic. Out of the door you creep--and gaze in astonishment
on a new world. The mist is slowly rolling up and away in long lines of clouds, preserving,
perhaps, a beautiful regularity on their ascension and evanescence, and between them

    "Tier above tier, a wooded theatre
    Of stateliest view,"

or cliff galleries with strange stone-images sitting up aloft; and yet your eyes have not reached
the summits, nor will they reach them, till all that vapoury ten-mile-long mass dissolve, or
be scattered, and then you start to see them, as if therein had been but their bases, THE MOUNTAINS,
with here and there a peak illumined, reposing in the blue serene that smiles as if all the
while it had been above reach of the storm.

The power of Egoism accompanies us into solitude; nay, is even more life-pervading there than
in the hum of men. There the stocks and stones are more impressible than those we sometimes
stumble on in human society, and, moulded at our will, take what shape we choose to give them;
the trees follow our footsteps, though our lips be mute, and we may have left at home our fiddle--more
potent we in our actuality than the fabled Orpheus. Be hushed, ye streams, and listen unto
Christopher! Be chained, ye clouds, and attentive unto North! And at our bidding silent the
cataract on the cliff--the thunder on the sky. The sea beholds us on the shore--and his one
huge frown transformed into a multitudinous smile, he turns flowing affections towards us along
the golden sands--and in a fluctuating hindrance of lovely foam-wreaths envelopes our feet!

To return to Thomson. Wordsworth labours to prove, in one of his "postliminious prefaces,"
that the true spirit of "The Seasons," till long after their publication, was neither felt
nor understood. In the conduct of his argument he does not shine. That the poem was at once
admired he is forced to admit; but then, according to him, the admiration was false and hollow--it
was regarded but with that wonder which is the "natural product of ignorance." "Having shown"!!!
Why, he has shown nothing but his own arrogance in supposing that his mere ipse dixit will
be taken by the whole world as proof that Dryden and Pope had not the use of their eyes. We
are no enthusiasts--we are far too old for that folly; but we have eyes in our head, though
sometimes rather dim and motey, and as good eyes, too, as Mr Wordsworth, and we often have
recited--and hope often will recite them again--Pope's exquisite lines, not only without any
"suspicion of their absurdity," but with the conviction of a most devout belief that, with
some little vagueness perhaps, and repetition, and a word here and there that might be altered
for the better, the description is most beautiful. But grant it miserable--grant all Mr Wordsworth
has so dictatorially uttered--and what then? Though descriptive poetry did not flourish during
the period between "Paradise Lost" and "The Seasons," nevertheless, did not mankind enjoy the
use of their seven senses? Could they not see and hear without the aid of those oculists and
aurists, the poets? Were all the shepherds and agriculturists of England and Scotland blind
and deaf to all the sights and sounds of nature, and all the gentlemen and ladies too, from
the king and queen upon the throne, to the lowest of their subjects? Very like a whale! Causes
there were why poetry flowed during that era in another channel than that of the description
of natural scenery; and if it flowed too little in that channel then--which is true--equally
is it true that it flows now in it too much--especially among the poets of the Lake School,
to the neglect, not of sentiments and affections--for there they excel--but of strong direct
human passion applied to the stir and tumult--of which the interest is profound and eternal--of
all the great affairs of human life. But though the descriptive poets during the period between
Milton and Thomson were few and indifferent, no reason is there in this world for imagining,
with Mr Wordsworth, that men had forgotten both the heavens and the earth. They had not--nor
was the wonder with which they must have regarded the great shows of nature, the "natural product
of ignorance," then, any more than it is now, or ever was during a civilised age. If we be
right in saying so--then neither could the admiration which "The Seasons," on the first appearance
of that glorious poem, excited, be said, with any truth, to have been but a "wonder, the natural
product of ignorance."

Mr Wordsworth having thus signally failed in his attempt to show that "much of what Thomson's
biographer deemed genuine admiration, must, in fact, have been blind wonderment," let us accompany
him in his equally futile efforts to show "how the rest is to be accounted for."

Thomson, in one sense, was fortunate in the title of his poem. But a great poet like Wordsworth
might--nay, ought to have chosen another word--or have given of that word a loftier explanation,
when applied to Thomson's choice of the Seasons for the subject of his immortal poem. Genius
made that choice--not fortune. The "Seasons" are not merely the "title" of his poem--they are
his poem, and his poem is the Seasons. But how, pray, can Thomson be said to have been fortunate
in the title or the subject either of his poem, in the sense that Mr Wordsworth means? Why,
according to him, people knew little, and cared less, about the Seasons. "The art of seeing
had in some measure been learned!" That he allows--but that was all--and that all is but little--and
surely far from being enough to have disposed people in general to listen to the strains of
a poet who painted nature in all her moods, and under all her aspects. Thomson, then, we say,
was either most unfortunate in the title of his poem, or there was not with the many that indifference
to, and ignorance of natural scenery, on which Mr Wordsworth so strenuously insists as part,
or rather whole, of his preceding argument.

The title, Mr Wordsworth says, seemed "to bring the poem home to the prepared sympathies of
every one!" What! to the prepared sympathies of those who had merely, in some measure, learned
the "art of seeing," and who had "paid," as he says in another sentence, "little accurate attention
to the appearances of nature!" Never did the weakest mind ever fall into grosser contradictions
than does here one of the strongest, in vainly labouring to bolster up a silly assertion, which
he has desperately ventured on from a most mistaken conceit that it was necessary to account
for the kind of reception which his own poetry had met with from the present age. The truth
is, that had Mr Wordsworth known, when he indited these luckless and helpless sentences, that
his own poetry was, in the best sense of the word, a thousand times more popular than he supposed
it to be--and Heaven be praised, for the honour of the age, it was and is so!--never had they
been written, nor had he here and elsewhere laboured to prove that in proportion as poetry
is bad, or rather as it is no poetry at all, is it, has been, and always will be, more and
more popular in the age contemporary with the writer. That Thomson, in "The Seasons," sometimes
writes a vicious style, may be true; but it is not true that he often does so. His style has
its faults, no doubt, and some of them inextricably interwoven with the web of his composition.
It is a dangerous style to imitate--especially to dunces. But its virtue is divine; and that
divine virtue, even in this low world of ours, wins admiration more surely and widely than
earthly vice--be it in words, thoughts, feelings, or actions--is a creed that we will not relinquish
at the beck or bidding even of the great author of "The Excursion."

That many did--do--and will admire the bad or indifferent passages in "The Seasons"--won by
their false glitter or commonplace sentimentalism, is no doubt true: but the delight, though
as intense as perhaps it may be foolish, with which boys and virgins, woman-mantuamakers and
man-milliners, and "the rest," peruse the Rhapsody on Love--one passage of which we ventured
to be facetious on in our Soliloquy on the Seasons--and hang over the picture of Musidora undressing,
while Damon watches the process of disrobement, panting behind a tree, will never account for
the admiration with which the whole world hailed the "Winter," the first published of "The
Seasons;" during which, Thomson had not the barbarity to plunge any young lady naked into the
cold bath, nor the ignorance to represent, during such cold weather, any young lady turning
her lover sick by the ardour of her looks, and the vehemence of her whole enamoured deportment.
The time never was--nor could have been--when such passages were generally esteemed the glory
of the poem. Indeed, independently of its own gross absurdity, the assertion is at total variance
with that other assertion, equally absurd, that people admired most in the poem what they least
understood; for the Rhapsody on Love is certainly very intelligible, nor does there seem much
mystery in Musidora going into the water to wash and cool herself on a hot day. Is it not melancholy,
then, to hear such a man as Mr Wordsworth, earnestly, and even somewhat angrily, trying to
prove that "these are the parts of the work which, after all, were probably most efficient
in first recommending the author to general notice?"

With respect to the "sentimental commonplaces with which Thomson abounds," no doubt they were
and are popular; and many of them deserve to be so, for they are on a level with the usual
current of human feeling, and many of them are eminently beautiful. Thomson had not the philosophical
genius of Wordsworth, but he had a warm human heart, and its generous feelings overflow all
his poem. These are not the most poetical parts of "The Seasons," certainly, where such effusions
prevail; but still, so far from being either vicious or worthless, they have often a virtue
and a worth that must be felt by all the children of men. There is something not very credible
in the situation of the parties in the story of the "lovely young Lavinia," for example, and
much of the sentiment is commonplace enough; but will Mr Wordsworth say--in support of his
theory, that the worst poetry is always at first (and at last too, it would seem, from the
pleasure with which that tale is still read by all simple minds) the most popular--that that
story is a bad one? It is a very beautiful one.

Mr Wordsworth, in all his argumentation, is so blinded by his determination to see everything
in but one light, and that a most mistaken one, that he is insensible to the conclusion to
which it all leads, or rather, which is involved in it. Why, according to him, even now, when
people have not only learned the "art of seeing"--a blessing for which they can never be too
thankful--but when descriptive poetry has long flourished far beyond its palmiest state in
any other era of our literature, still are we poor common mortals who admire "The Seasons,"
just as deaf and blind now, or nearly so, to their real merits--allowed to be transcendent--as
our unhappy forefathers were when that poem first appeared, "a glorious apparition." The Rhapsody
on Love, and Damon and Musidora, are still, according to him, its chief attraction--its false
ornaments--and its sentimental commonplaces--such as those, we presume, on the benefits of
early rising, and,

    "Oh! little think the gay licentious proud!"

What a nest of ninnies must people in general be in Mr Wordsworth's eyes! And is "The Excursion"
not to be placed by the side of "Paradise Lost," till the Millennium?

Such is the reasoning (!) of one of the first of our English poets, against not only the people
of Britain, but mankind. How original and profound! Thomson redeemed his pledge; and that great
pawnbroker, the public, returned to him his poem at the end of a year and a day. Now, what
is the "mighty stream of tendency" of that remark? Were the public, or the people, or the world,
gulled by this unheard-of pledge of Thomson, to regard his work with that "wonder which is
the natural product of ignorance!" If they were so in his case, why not in every other? All
poets pledge themselves to be poetical, but too many of them are wretchedly prosaic--die and
are buried, or what is worse, protract a miserable existence, in spite of their sentimental
commonplaces, false ornaments, and a vicious style. But Thomson, in spite of all these, leapt
at once into a glorious life, and a still more glorious immortality.

There is no mystery in the matter. Thomson--a great poet--poured his genius over a subject
of universal interest; and "The Seasons" from that hour to this--then, now, and for ever--have
been, are, and will be loved, and admired by all the world. All over Scotland "The Seasons"
is a household book. Let the taste and feeling shown by the Collectors of Elegant Extracts
be poor as possible; yet Thomson's countrymen, high and low, rich and poor, have all along
not only gloried in his illustrious fame, but have made a very manual of his great work. It
lies in many thousand cottages. We have ourselves seen it in the shepherd's shieling, and in
the woodsman's bower--small, yellow-leaved, tatter'd, mean, miserable, calf-skin-bound, smoked,
stinking copies--let us not fear to utter the word, ugly but true--yet perused, pored, and
pondered over by those humble dwellers, by the winter ingle or on the summer brae, perhaps
with as enlightened--certainly with as imagination-overmastering a delight as ever enchained
the spirits of the high-born and highly-taught to their splendid copies lying on richly-carved
tables, and bound in crimson silk or velvet, in which the genius of painting strives to embody
that of poetry, and the printer's art to lend its beauty to the very shape of the words in
which the bard's immortal spirit is enshrined. "The art of seeing" has flourished for many
centuries in Scotland. Men, women, and children, all look up to her loveful blue or wrathful
black skies, with a weather-wisdom that keeps growing from the cradle to the grave.

In Scriptural language, loftier even than that, the same imagery is applied to the sights seen
by the true believer. Who is it "that maketh the clouds His chariot?" The Scottish peasantry--Highland
and Lowland--look much and often on nature thus; and they live in the heart of the knowledge
and of the religion of nature. Therefore do they love Thomson as an inspired bard--only a little
lower than the Prophets. In like manner have the people of Scotland--from time immemorial--enjoyed
the use of their ears. Even persons somewhat hard of hearing, are not deaf to her waterfalls.
In the sublime invocation to Winter, which we have quoted--we hear Thomson recording his own
worship of nature in his boyish days, when he roamed among the hills of his father's parish,
far away from the manse. In those strange and stormy delights did not thousands of thousands
of the Scottish boyhood familiarly live among the mists and snows? Of all that number he alone
had the genius to "here eternise on earth" his joy--but many millions have had souls to join
religiously in the hymns he chanted. Yea, his native land, with one mighty voice, has for upwards
of a century responded,

    "These, as they change, Almighty Father, these
      Are but the varied God!"

THE SNOWBALL BICKER OF PEDMOUNT.

Beautiful as Snow yet is to our eyes, even through our spectacles, how grey it looks beside
that which used to come with the long winters that glorified the earth in our youth, till the
white lustre was more delightful even than the green--and we prayed that the fine fleecy flakes
might never cease falling waveringly from the veil of the sky! No sooner comes the winter now,
than it is away again to one of the Poles. Then, it was a year in itself--a whole life. We
remember slides a quarter of a mile long, on level meadows; and some not less steep, down the
sides of hills that to us were mountains. No boy can slide on one leg now--not a single shoe
seems to have sparables. The florid style of skating shows that that fine art is degenerating;
and we look in vain for the grand simplicity of the masters that spread-eagled in the age of
its perfection. A change has come over the spirit of the curler's dream. They seem to our ears
indeed to have "quat their roaring play." The cry of "swoop-swoop" is heard still--but a faint,
feeble, and unimpassioned cry, compared with that which used, on the Mearns Brother-Loch, to
make the welkin ring, and for a moment to startle the moon and stars--those in the sky, as
well as those below the ice--till again the tumult subsided--and all the host of heaven above
and beneath became serene as a world of dreams. Is it not even so, Shepherd? What is a rink
now on a pond in Duddingston policy, to the rinks that rang and roared of old on the Loch o'
the Lowes, when every stone circled in a halo of spray, seemed instinct with spirit to obey,
along all its flight, the voice of him that launched it on its unerring aim, and sometimes,
in spite of his awkward skillessness, when the fate of the game hung on his own single crank,
went cannonading through all obstacles, till it fell asleep, like a beauty as it was, just
as it kissed the Tee!

Again we see--again we sit in the Snow-house, built by us boys out of a drift in the minister's
glebe, a drift--judging by the steeple, which was sixty--about twenty feet high--and purer
than any marble. The roof was all strewed with diamonds, which frost saved from the sun. The
porch of the palace was pillared--and the character of the building outside was, without any
servile imitation--for we worked in the glow of original genius, and none of us had then ever
seen itself or its picture--wonderfully like the Parthenon. Entering, you found yourself in
a superb hall, lighted up--not with gas, for up to that era gas had not been used except in
Pandemonium--but with a vast multitude of farthing candles, each in a turnip stuck into the
wall--while a chandelier of frozen snow-branches pendent from the roof set that presence-chamber
in a blaze. On a throne at the upper end sat young Christopher North--then the king of boys,
as now of men--and proud were his subjects to do him homage. In niches all around the sidewalls
were couches covered with hare, rabbit, foumart, and fox's skins--furnished by these animals
slain by us in the woods and among the rocks of that sylvan and moorland parish--the regal
Torus alone being spread with the dun-deer's hide from Lochiel Forest in Lochaber. Then old
airs were sung--in sweet single voice--or in full chorus that startled the wandering night
traveller on his way to the lone Kings-well; and then in the intermediate hush, old tales were
told "of goblin, ghost, or fairy," or of Wallace Wight at the Barns of Ayr or the Brig o' Stirling--or,
a glorious outlaw, harbouring in caves among the Cartlane Craigs--or of Robert Bruce the Deliverer,
on his shelty cleaving in twain the skull of Bohun the English knight, on his thundering war-steed,
armed cap-à-pie, while the King of Scotland had nothing on his unconquered head but his plain
golden crown. Tales of the Snow-house! Had we but the genius to recall you to life in undying song!

Nor was our frozen hall at times uncheered by the smiles of beauty. With those smiles was heard
the harmless love-whisper, and the harmless kiss of love; for the cottages poured forth their
little lasses in flower-like bands, nor did their parents fear to trust them in the fairy frozen
palace, where Christopher was king. Sometimes the old people themselves came to see the wonders
of the lamp, and on a snow-table stood a huge bowl--not of snow--steaming with nectar that
made Hyems smile as he hung his beard over the fragrant vapour. Nay, the minister himself--with
his mother and sister--was with us in our fantastic festivities, and gave to the architecture
of our palace his wondering praise. Then Andrew Lyndsey, the blind Paisley musician, a Latin
scholar, who knew where Cremona stood, struck up on his famous fiddle jig or strathspey--and
the swept floor, in a moment, was alive with a confused flight of foursome reels, each begun
and ended with kisses, and maddened by many a whoop and yell--so like savages were we in our
glee, dancing at the marriage of some island king!

Countless years have fled since that Snow-palace melted away--and of all who danced there,
how many are now alive! Pshaw! as many probably as then danced anywhere else. It would never
do to live for ever--let us then live well and wisely; and when death comes--from that sleep
how blessed to awake! in a region where is no frost--no snow--but the sun of eternal life.

Mercy on us! what a hubbub!--Can the harriers be hunting in such a snowfall as this, and is
poor pussy in view before the whole murderous pack, opening in full cry on her haunches? Why--Imagination,
thou art an ass, and thy long ears at all times greedy of deception! 'Tis but a country Schoolhouse
pouring forth its long-imprisoned stream of life as in a sudden sunny thaw, the Mad Master
flying in the van of his helter-skelter scholars, and the whole yelling mass precipitated,
many of them headlong, among the snow. Well do we know the fire-eyed Poet pedagogue, who, more
outrageous than Apollo, has "ravished all the Nine." Ode, elegy, epic, tragedy, or farce--all
come alike to him; and of all the bards we have ever known--and the sum total cannot be under
a thousand--he alone, judging from the cock and the squint of his eye, labours under the blessing
or the curse--we wot not whilk it be--of perpetual inspiration. A rare eye, too, is his at
the setting of a springe for woodcocks, or tracking a maukin on the snow. Not a daredevil in
the school that durst follow the indentations of his toes and fingers up the wall of the old
castle, to the holes just below the battlements, to thrust his arm up to the elbows harrying
the starlings' nests. The corbies ken the shape of his shoulders, as craftily he threads the
wood; and let them build their domicile as high as the swinging twigs will bear its weight,
agile as squirrel, and as foumart ferocious, up speels, by the height undizzied, the dreadless
Dominie; and should there be fledged or puddock-haired young ones among the wool, whirling
with guttural cawings down a hundred feet descent, on the hard rooty ground floor from which
springs pine, oak, or ash, driven out is the life, with a squelsh and a squash, from the worthless
carrion. At swimming we should not boggle to back him for the trifle of a cool hundred against
the best survivor among those water-serpents, Mr Turner, Dr Bedale, Lieutenant Ekenhead, Lord
Byron, Leander, and Ourselves--while, with the steel shiners on his soles, into what a set
of ninnies in their ring would he not reduce the Edinburgh Skating Club?

Saw ye ever a Snowball Bicker? Never! Then look there with all the eyes in your head--only
beware of a bash on the bridge of your nose, a bash that shall dye the snow with your virgin
blood. The Poet-pedagogue, alias the Mad Dominie, with Bob Howie as his Second in Command,
has chosen the Six stoutest striplings for his troop, and, at the head of that Sacred Band,
offers battle to Us at the head of the whole School. Nor does that formidable force decline
the combat. War levels all foolish distinctions of scholarship. Booby is Dux now, and Dux Booby--and
the obscure dunce is changed into an illustrious hero.

Down from the mount on which it had been drawn up in battle array, in solid square comes the
School army, with shouts that might waken the dead, and inspire with the breath of life the
nostrils of the great Snow-giant built up at the end of yonder avenue, and indurated by last
night's frost. But there lies a fresh fall--and a better day for a bicker never rose flakily
from the yellow East. Far out of distance, and prodigal of powder lying three feet deep on
the flats, and heaped up in drifts to tree and chimney-top, the tirailleurs, flung out in front,
commence the conflict by a shower of balls that, from the bosom of the yet untrodden snow between
the two battles, makes spin like spray the shining surface. Then falling back on the main body,
they find their places in the front rank, and the whole mottled mass, grey, blue, and scarlet,
moves onwards o'er the whiteness, a moment ere they close,

    "Calm as the breeze, but dreadful as the storm!"

"Let fly," cries a clear voice--and the snowball storm hurtles through the sky. Just then the
valley-mouth blew sleety in the faces of the foe--their eyes, as if darkened with snuff or
salt, blinked bat-like--and with erring aim flew their feckless return to that shower of frosty
fire. Incessant is the silent cannonade of the resistless School--silent but when shouts proclaim
the fall or flight of some doughty champion in the adverse legion.

See--see--the Sacred Band are broken! The cravens take ignominiously to flight--and the Mad
Dominie and Bob Howie alone are left to bear the brunt of battle. A dreadful brotherhood! But
the bashing balls are showered upon them right and left from scores of catapultic arms--and
the day is going sore against them, though they fight less like men than devils. Hurra! the
Dominie's down, and Bob staggers. "Guards, up and at them!" "A simultaneous charge of cocks,
hens, and earocks!" No sooner said than done. Bob Howie is buried--and the whole School is
trampling on its Master!

    "Oh, for a blast of that dread horn,
    On Fontarabian echoes borne,
      That to King Charles did come,
    When Rowland brave and Olivier,
    And every paladin and peer,
      On Roncesvalles died!"

The smothered ban of Bob, and the stifled denunciations of the Dominie, have echoed o'er the
hill, and,

    "Fierce as ten furies, terrible as hell,"

the runaways, shaking the snows of panic from their pows,

    "Like dewdrops from the lion's mane,"

come rushing to the rescue. Two of the Six tremble and turn. The high heroic scorn of their
former selves urges four to renew the charge, and the sound of their feet on the snow is like
that of an earthquake. What bashes on bloody noses! What bungings-up of eyes! Of lips what
slittings! Red is many a spittle! And as the coughing urchin groans, and claps his hand to
his mouth, distained is the snowball that drops unlaunched at his feet. The School are broken--their
hearts die within them--and--can we trust our blasted eyes?--the white livers show the white
feather, and fly! O shame! O sorrow! O sin! they turn their backs and fly! Disgraced are the
mothers that bore them--and "happy in my mind," wives and widows, "were ye that died," undoomed
to hear the tidings of this wretched overthrow! Heavens and earth! sixty are flying before
Six!--and half of sixty--oh! that we should record it!--are pretending to be dead!! Would indeed
that the snow were their winding-sheet, so that it might but hide our dishonour!

Look, we beseech you, at the Mad Dominie! like Hector issuing from the gates of Troy, and driving
back the Greeks to their ships; or rather--hear, spirit of Homer!--like some great, shaggy,
outlandish wolf-dog, that hath swum ashore from some strange wreck, and, after a fortnight's
famine on the bare sea-cliffs, been driven by the hunger that gnaws his stomach like a cancer,
and the thirst-fever that can only be slaked in blood, to venture prowling for prey up the
vale, till, snuffing the scent of a flock of sheep, after some grim tiger-like creeping on
his belly, he springs at last, with huge long spangs, on the woolly people, with bull-like
growlings quailing their poor harmless hearts, and then fast throttling them, one after another--till,
as it might seem rather in wantonness of rage than in empty pangs, he lies down at last in
the midst of all the murdered carcasses, licking the blood off his flews and paws--and then,
looking and listening round with his red turbid eyes, and sharp-pointed ears savagely erect,
conscious of crime and fearful of punishment, soon as he sees and hears that all the coast
is clear and still, again gloatingly fastens his tusks behind the ears, and then eats into
the kidneys of the fattest of the flock, till, sated with gore and tallow, he sneaks stealthily
into the wood, and coiling himself up all his wiry length--now no longer lank, but swollen
and knotted like that of a deer-devouring snake--he falls suddenly asleep, and re-banquets
in a dream of murder.

That simile was conceived in the spirit of Dan Homer, but delivered in that of Kit North. No
matter. Like two such wolf-dogs are now Bob Howie and the Mad Dominie--and the School like
such silly sheep. Those other hell-dogs are leaping in the rear--and to the eyes of fear and
flight each one of the Six seems more many-headed than Cerberus, while their mouths kindle
the frosty air into fire, and thunder-bolts pursue the pell-mell of the panic.

Such and so imaginative is not only mental but corporeal fear. What though it be but a Snowball
bicker! The air is darkened--no, brightened by the balls, as in many a curve they describe
their airy flight--some hard as stones--some soft as slush--some blae and drippy in the cold-hot
hand that launches them on the flying foe, and these are the teazers--some almost transparent
in the cerulean sky, and broken ere they reach their aim, abortive "armamentaria coeli"--and
some useless from the first, and felt, as they leave the palm, to be fozier than the foziest
turnip, and unfit to bash a fly.

Far and wide, over hill, bank, and brae, are spread the flying School! Squads of us, at sore
sixes and sevens, are making for the frozen woods. Alas! poor covert now in their naked leaflessness
for the stricken deer! Twos and threes in miserable plight floundering in drift-wreaths! And
here and there--woefullest sight of all--single boys distractedly ettling at the sanctuaries
of distant houses--with their heads all the while insanely twisted back over their shoulders,
and the glare of their eyes fixed frightfully on the swift-footed Mad Dominie, till souse over
neck and ears, bubble and squeak, precipitated into traitorous pitfall, and in a moment evanished
from this upper world!

Disturbed crows fly away a short distance and alight silent,--the magpies chatter pert even
in alarm,--the lean kine, collected on the lown sides of braes, wonder at the rippet--their
horns moving, but not their tails,--while the tempest-tamed bull--almost dull now as an ox--gives
a short sullen growl as he feebly paws the snow.

But who is he--the tall slender boy--slender, but sinewy--a wiry chap--five feet eight on his
stocking-soles--and on his stocking-soles he stands--for the snow has sucked his shoes from
his feet--that plants himself like an oak sapling, rooted ankle-deep on a knoll, and there,
a juvenile Jupiter Stator, with voice and arm arrests the Flight, and fiercely gesticulating
vengeance on the insolent foe, recalls and rallies the shattered School, that he may re-lead
them to victory? The phantom of a visionary dream! KIT NORTH HIMSELF--

    "In life's morning march when his spirit was young."

And once on a day was that figure--ours! Then like a chamois-hunter of
the Alps!
    Through the perils of chance and the scowl of disdain,
      Let thy front be unalter'd, thy courage elate;
    Yea! even the name we have worshipp'd in vain
    Shall awake not a pang of remembrance again;
      To bear, is to conquer our fate!"

Half a century is annihilated as if it had never been: it is as if young Kit had become not
old Kit--but were standing now as then front to front, with but a rood of trampled snow between
them, before the Mad Dominie and Bob Howie--both the bravest of the brave in Snowball or Stone
bicker--in street, lane, or muir fight--hand to hand, single-pitched with Black King Carey
of the Gypsies--or in irregular high-road row--two to twelve--with a gang of Irish horse-coupers
from the fair of Glasgow returning by Portpatrick to Donaghadee. 'Tis a strange thing so distinctly
to see One's Self as he looked of yore--to lose one's present frail personal identity in that
of the powerful past. Or rather to admire One's Self as he was, without consciousness of the
mean vice of egotism, because of the pity almost bordering on contempt with which One regards
One's Self as he is, shrivelled up into a sort of shrimp of a man--or blown out into a flounder.

The Snowball bicker owns an armistice--and Kit North--that is, we of the olden and the golden
time--advance into the debatable ground between the two armies, with a frozen branch in our
hand as a flag of truce. The Mad Dominie loved us, because then-a-days--bating and barring
the cock and the squint of his eye--we were like himself a poet, and while a goose might continue
standing on one leg, could have composed one jolly act of a tragedy, or book of an epic, while
Bob--God bless him!--to guard us from scathe would have risked his life against a whole craal
of tinkers. With open arms they come forward to receive us; but our blood is up--and we are
jealous of the honour of the School, which has received a stain which must be wiped out in
blood. From what mixed motives act boys and men in the deeds deemed most heroic, and worthy
of the meed of everlasting fame! Even so is it now with us--when sternly eyeing the other Six,
and then respectfully the Mad Dominie, we challenge--not at long bowls--but toe to toe, at
the scratch on the snow, with the naked mawlies, the brawny boy with the red shock-head, the
villain with the carrots, who, by moonlight nights,

    "Round the stacks with the lasses at bogles to play,"

had dared to stand between us and the ladye of our love. Off fly our jackets and stocks--it
is not a day for buff--and at it like bull-dogs. Twice before had we fought him--at our own
option--over the bonnet; for 'twas a sturdy villain, and famous for the cross-buttock. But
now, after the first close, in which we lose the fall--with straight right-handers we keep
him at off-fighting--and that was a gush of blood from his smeller. "How do you like that,
Ben?" Giving his head, with a mad rush, he makes a plunge with his heavy left--for he was ker-handed--at
our stomach. But a dip of our right elbow caught the blow, to the loud admiration of Bob Howie--and
even the Mad Dominie, the umpire, could not choose but smile. Like lightning, our left returns
between the ogles--and Ben bites the snow. Three cheers from the School--and, lifted on the
knee of his second, James Maxwell Wallace, since signalised at Waterloo, and now a knighted
colonel of horse, "he grins horribly a ghastly smile," and is brought up staggering to the
scratch. We know that we have him--and ask considerately, "what he means by winking?" And now
we play around him,

    "Just like unto a trundling mop,
    Or a wild-goose at play."

He is brought down now to our own weight--then nine stone jimp--his eyes are getting momently
more and more pig-like--water-logged, like those of Queen Bleary, whose stone image lies in
the echoing aisle of the old Abbey Church of Paisley--and bat-blind, he hits past our head
and body, like an awkward hand at the flail, when drunk, thrashing corn. Another hit on the
smeller, and a stinger on the throat-apple--and down he sinks like a poppy--deaf to the call
of "time"--and victory smiles upon us from the bright blue skies. "Hurra--hurra--hurra! Christopher
for ever!" and perched aloft, astride on the shoulders of Bob Howie--he, the Invincible, gallops
with us all over the field, followed by the shouting School, exulting that Ben the Bully has
at last met with an overthrow. We exact an oath that he will never again meddle with Meg Whitelaw--shake
hands cordially, and

    "Off to some other game we all together flew."

And so ended the famous Snowball Bicker of Pedmount, now immortalised in our Prose-Poem.

Some men, it is sarcastically said, are boys all life-long, and carry with them their puerility
to the grave. 'Twould be well for the world were there in it more such men. By way of proving
their manhood, we have heard grown-up people abuse their own boyhood--forgetting what our great
Philosophical Poet--after Milton and Dryden--has told them, that

    "The boy is father of the man,"

and thus libelling the author of their existence. A poor boy indeed must he have been, who
submitted to misery when the sun was new in heaven. Did he hate or despise the flowers around
his feet, congratulating him on being young like themselves? the stars, young always, though
Heaven only knows how many million years old, every night sparkling in happiness which they
manifestly wished him to share? Did he indeed in his heart believe that the moon, in spite
of her shining midnight face, was made of green cheese? Not only are the foundations dug and
laid in boyhood, of all the knowledge and the feelings of our prime, but the ground-flat too
built, and often the second story of the entire superstructure, from the windows of which,
the soul looking out, beholds nature in her state, and leaps down, unafraid of a fall on the
green or white bosom of earth, to join with hymns the front of the procession. The soul afterwards
perfects her palace--building up tier after tier of all imaginable orders of architecture--till
the shadowy roof, gleaming with golden cupolas, like the cloud-region of the setting sun, set
the heavens ablaze.

Gaze up on the highest idea--gaze down on the profoundest emotion--and you will know and feel
in a moment that it is not a new birth. You become a devout believer in the Pythagorean and
Platonic doctrine of metempsychosis and reminiscence, and are awed by the mysterious consciousness
of the thought "BEFORE!" Try then to fix its date, and back travels your soul, now groping
its way in utter darkness, and now in darkness visible--now launching along lines of steady
lustre, such as the moon throws on the broad bosoms of starry lakes--now dazzled by sudden
contrast--

    "Blind with excess of light!"

But back let it travel, as best or worst it may, through and amidst eras after eras of the
wan or radiant past; yet never, except for some sweet instant of delusion, breaking dewdrop-like
at a touch or a breath, during all that perilous pilgrimage--and perilous must it be, haunted
by so many ghosts--never may it reach the shrine it seeks--the fountain from which first flowed
that feeling whose origin seems to have been out of the world of time--dare we say--in eternity!

CHRISTMAS DREAMS.

How graciously provided are all the subdivisions of Time, diversifying the dream of human life!
And why should moralists mourn over the mutability that gives the chief charm to all that passes
so transitorily before our eyes!--leaving image upon image in the waters of memory, that can
bear being stirred without being disturbed, and contain steadier and steadier reflections as
they seem to repose on an unfathomable depth!--the years, the months, the weeks, the days,
the nights, the hours, the minutes, the moments, each in itself a different living, and peopled,
and haunted world. One life is a thousand lives, and each individual, as he fully renews the
past, reappears in a thousand characters; yet all of them bearing a mysterious identity not
to be misunderstood, and all of them, while every passion has been shifting and ceasing, and
reascending into power, still under the dominion of the same Conscience, that feels and knows
it is from God.

Who will complain of the shortness of human life, that can re-travel all the windings, and
wanderings, and mazes that his feet have trodden since the farthest back hour at which memory
pauses, baffled and blindfolded, as she vainly tries to penetrate and illumine the palpable,
the impervious darkness that shrouds the few first years of our inscrutable being? Long, long,
long ago seems it to be indeed, when we now remember it, the Time we first pulled the primroses
on the sunny braes, wondering in our first blissful emotions of beauty at the leaves with a
softness all their own--a yellowness nowhere else so vivid--"the bright consummate flower"
so starlike to our awakened imagination among the lowly grass--lovely indeed to our admiring
eyes as any one of all the stars that, in their turn, did seem themselves like flowers in the
blue fields of heaven! Long, long, long ago, the time when we danced hand in hand with our
golden-haired sister! Long, long, long ago, the day on which she died--the hour, so far more
dismal than any hour that can now darken us on this earth, when her coffin descended slowly,
slowly into the horrid clay, and we were borne death-like, and wishing to die, out of the churchyard,
that, from that moment, we thought we could enter never more! What a multitudinous being must
ours have been, when, before our boyhood was gone, we could have forgotten her buried face!
or at the dream of it, dashed off a tear, and away, with a bounding heart, in the midst of
a cloud of playmates, breaking into fragments on the hill-side, and hurrying round the shores
of those wild moorland lochs, in vain hope to surprise the heron that slowly uplifted his blue
bulk, and floated away, regardless of our shouts, to the old castle woods. It is all like a
reminiscence of some other state of existence.

Then, after all the joys and sorrows of those few years, which we now call transitory, but
which our BOYHOOD felt as if they would be endless--as if they would endure for ever--arose
upon us the glorious dawning of another new life--YOUTH--with its insupportable sunshine, and
its agitating storms. Transitory, too, we now know, and well deserving the same name of dream.
But while it lasted, long, various, and agonising; as, unable to sustain the eyes that first
revealed to us the light of love, we hurried away from the parting hour, and, looking up to
moon and stars, invocated in sacred oaths, hugged the very heavens to our heart. Yet life had
not then nearly reached its meridian, journeying up the sunbright firmament. How long hung
it there exulting, when "it flamed on the forehead of the noontide sky!" Let not the Time be
computed by the lights and shadows of the years, but by the innumerable array of visionary
thoughts, that kept deploying as if from one eternity into another--now in dark sullen masses,
now in long array, brightened as if with spear-points and standards, and moving along through
chasm, abyss, and forest, and over the summits of the highest mountains, to the sound of ethereal
music, now warlike and tempestuous--now, as "from flutes and soft recorders" accompanying not
pæans of victory but hymns of peace. That Life, too, seems, now that it is gone, to have been
of a thousand years. Is it gone? Its skirts are yet hovering on the horizon. And is there yet
another Life destined for us? That Life which men fear to face--Age, Old Age! Four dreams within
a dream--and where to awake?

At dead of night--and it is now dead of night--how the heart quakes on a sudden at the silent
resurrection of buried thoughts! Perhaps the sunshine of some one single Sabbath of more exceeding
holiness comes first glimmering, and then brightening upon us, with the very same sanctity
that filled all the air at the tolling of the kirk-bell, when all the parish was hushed, and
the voice of streams heard more distinctly among the banks and braes. Then, all at once, a
thunderstorm, that many years before, or many years after, drove us, when walking alone over
the mountains, into a shieling, will seem to succeed; and we behold the same threatening aspect
of the heavens that then quailed our beating hearts, and frowned down our eyelids before the
lightning began to flash, and the black rain to deluge all the glens. No need now for any effort
of thought. The images rise of themselves--independently of our volition--as if another being,
studying the working of our minds, conjured up the phantasmagoria before us who are beholding
it with love, wonder, and fear. Darkness and silence have a power of sorcery over the past;
the soul has then, too, often restored to it feelings and thoughts that it had lost, and is
made to know that nothing it once experiences ever perishes, but that all things spiritual
possess a principle of immortal life.

Why linger on the shadowy wall some of those phantasmagoria--returning after they have disappeared--and
reluctant to pass away into their former oblivion? Why shoot others athwart the gloom, quick
as spectral figures seen hurrying among mountains during a great storm? Why do some glare and
threaten--why others fade away with a melancholy smile? Why that one--a Figure all in white,
and with white roses in her hair--come forward through the haze, beautifying into distincter
form and face, till her pale beseeching hands almost touch our neck--and then, in a moment,
it is as nothing?

But now the room is disenchanted--and feebly our lamp is glimmering, about to leave us to the
light of the moon and stars. There it is trimmed again--and the sudden increase of lustre cheers
the heart within us like a festal strain. And To-Morrow--To-Morrow is Merry Christmas; and
when its night descends there will be mirth and music, and the light sound of the merry-twinkling
feet within these now so melancholy walls--and sleep, now reigning over all the house save
this one room, will be banished far over the sea--and morning will be reluctant to allow her
light to break up the innocent orgies.

Were every Christmas of which we have been present at the celebration, painted according to
nature--what a Gallery of Pictures! True that a sameness would pervade them all--but only that
kind of sameness that pervades the nocturnal heavens. One clear night always is, to common
eyes, just like another; for what hath any night to show but one moon and some stars--a blue
vault, with here a few braided, and there a few castellated, clouds? Yet no two nights ever
bore more than a family resemblance to each other before the studious and instructed eye of
him who has long communed with Nature, and is familiar with every smile and frown on her changeful,
but not capricious, countenance. Even so with the Annual Festivals of the heart. Then our thoughts
are the stars that illumine those skies--and on ourselves it depends whether they shall be
black as Erebus, or brighter than Aurora.

    "Thoughts! that like spirits trackless come and go"--

is a fine line of Charles Lloyd's. But no bird skims, no arrow pierces the air, without producing
some change in the Universe, which will last to the day of doom. No coming and going is absolutely
trackless; nor irrecoverable by Nature's law is any consciousness, however ghostlike; though
many a one, even the most blissful, never does return, but seems to be buried among the dead.
But they are not dead--but only sleep; though to us who recall them not, they are as they had
never been, and we, wretched ingrates, let them lie for ever in oblivion! How passing sweet
when of their own accord they arise to greet us in our solitude?--as a friend who, having sailed
away to a foreign land in our youth, has been thought to have died many long years ago, may
suddenly stand before us, with face still familiar and name reviving in a moment, and all that
he once was to us brought from utter forgetfulness close upon our heart.

My Father's House! How it is ringing like a grove in spring, with the din of creatures happier,
a thousand times happier, than all the birds on earth. It is the Christmas Holidays--Christmas
Day itself--Christmas Night--and Joy in every bosom intensifies Love. Never before were we
brothers and sisters so dear to one another--never before had our hearts so yearned towards
the authors of our being--our blissful being! There they sit--silent in all that outcry--composed
in all that disarray--still in all that tumult; yet, as one or other flying imp sweeps round
the chair, a father's hand will playfully strive to catch a prisoner--a mother's gentler touch
on some sylph's disordered symar be felt almost as a reproof, and for a moment slacken the
fairy-flight. One old game treads on the heels of another--twenty within the hour--and many
a new game never heard of before nor since, struck out by the collision of kindred spirits
in their glee, the transitory fancies of genius inventive through very delight. Then, all at
once, there is a hush, profound as ever falls on some little plat within a forest when the
moon drops behind the mountain, and the small green-robed People of Peace at once cease their
pastime, and evanish. For She--the Silver-Tongued--is about to sing an old ballad, words and
air alike hundreds of years old--and sing she doth, while tears begin to fall, with a voice
too mournfully beautiful long to breathe below--and, ere another Christmas shall have come
with the falling snows, doomed to be mute on earth--but to be hymning in Heaven.

Of that House--to our eyes the fairest of earthly dwellings--with its old ivied turrets, and
orchard-garden bright alike with fruit and with flowers, not one stone remains. The very brook
that washed its foundations has vanished along with them--and a crowd of other buildings, wholly
without character, has long stood where here a single tree, and there a grove, did once render
so lovely that small demesne; which, how could we, who thought it the very heart of Paradise,
even for one moment have believed was one day to be blotted out of being, and we ourselves--then
so linked in love that the band which bound us all together was, in its gentle pressure, felt
not nor understood--to be scattered far and abroad, like so many leaves that after one wild
parting rustle are separated by roaring wind-eddies, and brought together no more! The old
Abbey--it still survives; and there, in that corner of the burial-ground, below that part of
the wall which was least in ruins, and which we often climbed to reach the flowers and nests--there,
in hopes of a joyful resurrection, lie the Loved and Venerated--for whom, even now that so
many grief-deadening years have fled, we feel, in this holy hour, as if it were impiety so
utterly to have ceased to weep--so seldom to have remembered!--And then, with a powerlessness
of sympathy to keep pace with youth's frantic grief, the floods we all wept together--at no
long interval--on those pale and placid faces as they lay, most beautiful and most dreadful
to behold, in their coffins.

We believe that there is genius in all childhood. But the creative joy that makes it great
in its simplicity dies a natural death or is killed, and genius dies with it. In favoured spirits,
neither few nor many, the joy and the might survive; for you must know that unless it be accompanied
with imagination, memory is cold and lifeless. The forms it brings before us must be inspired
with beauty--that is, with affection or passion. All minds, even the dullest, remember the
days of their youth; but all cannot bring back the indescribable brightness of that blessed
season. They who would know what they once were, must not merely recollect, but they must imagine,
the hills and valleys--if any such there were--in which their childhood played, the torrents,
the waterfalls, the lakes, the heather, the rocks, the heaven's imperial dome, the raven floating
only a little lower than the eagle in the sky. To imagine what he then heard and saw, he must
imagine his own nature. He must collect from many vanished hours the power of his untamed heart,
and he must, perhaps, transfuse also something of his maturer mind into these dreams of his
former being, thus linking the past with the present by a continuous chain, which, though often
invisible, is never broken. So is it too with the calmer affections that have grown within
the shelter of a roof. We do not merely remember, we imagine our father's house, the fireside,
all his features then most living, now dead and buried; the very manner of his smile, every
tone of his voice. We must combine with all the passionate and plastic power of imagination
the spirit of a thousand happy hours into one moment; and we must invest with all that we ever
felt to be venerable such an image as alone can satisfy our filial hearts. It is thus that
imagination, which first aided the growth of all our holiest and happiest affections, can preserve
them to us unimpaired--

    "For she can give us back the dead,
    Even in the loveliest looks they wore."

Then came a New Series of Christmases, celebrated one year in this family, another year in
that--none present but those whom Charles Lamb the Delightful calleth the "old familiar faces;"
something in all features, and all tones of voice, and all manners, betokening origin from
one root--relations all, happy, and with no reason either to be ashamed or proud of their neither
high nor humble birth--their lot being cast within that pleasant realm, "the Golden Mean,"
where the dwellings are connecting-links between the hut and the hall--fair edifices resembling
manse or mansion-house, according as the atmosphere expands or contracts their dimensions--in
which Competence is next-door neighbour to Wealth, and both of them within the daily walk of
Contentment.

Merry Christmases they were indeed--one Lady always presiding, with a figure that once had
been the stateliest among the stately, but then somewhat bent, without being bowed down, beneath
an easy weight of most venerable years. Sweet was her tremulous voice to all her grandchildren's
ears. Nor did those solemn eyes, bedimmed into a pathetic beauty, in any degree restrain the
glee that sparkled in orbs that had as yet shed not many tears, but tears of joy or pity. Dearly
she loved all those mortal creatures whom she was soon about to leave; but she sat in sunshine
even within the shadow of death; and the "voice that called her home" had so long been whispering
in her ear, that its accents had become dear to her, and consolatory every word that was heard
in the silence, as from another world.

Whether we were indeed all so witty as we thought ourselves--uncles, aunts, brothers, sisters,
nephews, nieces, cousins, and "the rest," it might be presumptuous in us, who were considered
by ourselves and a few others not the least amusing of the whole set, at this distance of time
to decide--especially in the affirmative; but how the roof did ring with sally, pun, retort,
and repartee! Ay, with pun--a species of impertinence for which we have therefore a kindness
even to this day. Had incomparable Thomas Hood had the good fortune to have been born a cousin
of ours, how with that fine fancy of his would he have shone at those Christmas festivals,
eclipsing us all! Our family, through all its different branches, has ever been famous for
bad voices, but good ears; and we think we hear ourselves--all those uncles and aunts, nephews
and nieces, and cousins--singing now! Easy is it to "warble melody" as to breathe air. But
we hope harmony is the most difficult of all things to people in general, for to us it was
impossible; and what attempts ours used to be at Seconds! Yet the most woeful failures were
rapturously encored; and ere the night was done we spoke with most extraordinary voices indeed,
every one hoarser than another, till at last, walking home with a fair cousin, there was nothing
left for it but a tender glance of the eye--a tender pressure of the hand--for cousins are
not altogether sisters, and although partaking of that dearest character, possess, it may be,
some peculiar and appropriate charms of their own; as didst thou, Emily the "Wild-cap!"--That
sobriquet all forgotten now--for now thou art a matron, nay a Grandam, and troubled with an
elf fair and frolicsome as thou thyself wert of yore, when the gravest and wisest withstood
not the witchery of thy dancings, thy singings, and thy showering smiles.

On rolled Suns and Seasons--the old died--the elderly became old--and the young, one after
another, were wafted joyously away on the wings of hope, like birds almost as soon as they
can fly ungratefully forsaking their nests and the groves in whose safe shadow they first essayed
their pinions; or like pinnaces that, after having for a few days trimmed their snow-white
sails in the land-locked bay, close to whose shores of silvery sand had grown the trees that
furnished timber both for hull and mast, slip their tiny cables on some summer-day, and gathering
every breeze that blows, go dancing over the waves in sunshine, and melt far off into the main.
Or, haply, some were like fair young trees, transplanted during no favourable season, and never
to take root in another soil, but soon leaf and branch to wither beneath the tropic sun, and
die almost unheeded by those who knew not how beautiful they had been beneath the dews and
mists of their own native climate.

Vain images! and therefore chosen by fancy not too painfully to touch the heart. For some hearts
grow cold and forbidding with selfish cares--some, warm as ever in their own generous glow,
were touched by the chill of Fortune's frowns, ever worst to bear when suddenly succeeding
her smiles--some, to rid themselves of painful regrets, took refuge in forgetfulness, and closed
their eyes to the past--duty banished some abroad, and duty imprisoned others at home--estrangements
there were, at first unconscious and unintended, yet ere long, though causeless, complete--changes
were wrought insensibly, invisibly, even in the innermost nature of those who being friends
knew no guile, yet came thereby at last to be friends no more--unrequited love broke some bonds--requited
love relaxed others--the death of one altered the conditions of many--and so--year after year--the
Christmas Meeting was interrupted--deferred--till finally it ceased with one accord, unrenewed
and unrenewable. For when Some Things cease for a time--that time turns out to be for ever.

Survivors of those happy circles! wherever ye be--should these imperfect remembrances of days
of old chance, in some thoughtful pause of life's busy turmoil, for a moment to meet your eyes,
let there be towards the inditer a few throbs of revived affection in your hearts--for his,
though "absent long and distant far," has never been utterly forgetful of the loves and friendships
that charmed his youth. To be parted in body is not to be estranged in spirit--and many a dream
and many a vision, sacred to nature's best affections, may pass before the mind of one whose
lips are silent. "Out of sight out of mind" is rather the expression of a doubt--of a fear--than
of a belief or a conviction. The soul surely has eyes that can see the objects it loves, through
all intervening darkness--and of those more especially dear it keeps within itself almost undimmed
images, on which, when they know it not, think it not, believe it not, it often loves to gaze,
as on relics imperishable as they are hallowed.

All hail! rising beautiful and magnificent through the mists of morning--ye Woods, Groves,
Towers, and Temples, overshadowing that famous Stream beloved by all the Muses!

How steeped now in the stillness of moonlight are all those pale, pillared Churches, Courts
and Cloisters, Shrines and Altars, with here and there a Statue standing in the shade, or Monument
sacred to the memory of the pious--the immortal dead. Some great clock is striking from one
of many domes--from the majestic Tower of St Mary Magdalen--and in the deepened hush that follows
the solemn sound, the mingling waters of the Cherwell and the Isis soften the severe silence
of the holy night.

Remote from kindred, and from all the friendships that were the native growth of the fair fields
where our boyhood and our youth had roamed and meditated and dreamed, those were indeed years
of high and lofty mood which held us in converse with the shades of great Poets and Sages of
old in Rhedicyna's hallowed groves, still, serene, and solemn, as that Attic Academe where
divine Plato, with all Hybla on his lips, discoursed such excellent music that his life seemed
to the imagination spiritualised--a dim reminiscence of some former state of being. How sank
then the Christmas Service of that beautiful Liturgy into our hearts! Not faithless we to the
simple worship that our forefathers had loved; but Conscience told us there was no apostasy
in the feelings that rose within us when that deep organ began to blow, that choir of youthful
voices so sweetly to join the diapason,--our eyes fixed all the while on that divine Picture
over the Altar, of our Saviour

    "Bearing his cross up rueful Calvary."

The City of Palaces disappears--and in the setting sunlight we behold mountains of soft crimson
snow! The sun hath set, and even more beautiful are the bright-starred nights of winter, than
summer in all its glories beneath the broad moons of June. Through the woods of Windermere,
from cottage to cottage, by coppice-pathways winding up to dwellings among the hill-rocks where
the birch-trees cease to grow--

    "Nodding their heads, before us go,
    The merry minstrelsy."

They sing a salutation at every door, familiarly naming old and young by their Christian names;
and the eyes that look upward from the vales to the hanging huts among the plats and cliffs,
see the shadows of the dancers ever and anon crossing the light of the star-like window, and
the merry music is heard like an echo dwelling in the sky. Across those humble thresholds often
did we on Christmas-week nights of yore--wandering through our solitary sylvan haunts, under
the branches of trees within whose hollow trunk the squirrel slept--venture in, unasked perhaps,
but not unwelcome, and, in the kindly spirit of the season, did our best to merrify the Festival
by tale or song. And now that we behold them not, are all those woods, and cliffs, and rivers,
and tarns, and lakes, as beautiful as when they softened and brightened beneath our living
eyes, half-creating, as they gazed, the very world they worshipped? And are all those hearths
as bright as of yore, without the shadow of our figure? And the roofs, do they ring as mirthfully,
though our voice be forgotten? We hang over Westmoreland, an unobserved--but observant star.
Mountains, hills, rocks, knolls, vales, woods, groves, single trees, dwellings--all asleep!
O Lakes! but ye are, indeed, by far too beautiful! O fortunate Isles! too fair for human habitation,
fit abode for the Blest! It will not hide itself--it will not sink into the earth--it will
rise; and risen, it will stand steady with its shadow in the overpowering moonlight, that ONE
TREE! that ONE HOUSE!--and well might the sight of ye two together--were it harder--break our
heart. But hard at all it is not--therefore it is but crushed.

Can it be that there we are utterly forgotten! No star hanging higher than the Andes in heaven--but
sole-sitting at midnight in a small chamber--a melancholy man are we--and there seems a smile
of consolation, O Wordsworth! on thy sacred Bust.

Alas! how many heavenly days, "seeming immortal in their depth of rest," have died and been
forgotten! Treacherous and ungrateful is our memory even of bliss that overflowed our being
as light our habitation. Our spirit's deepest intercommunion with nature has no place in her
records--blanks are there that ought to have been painted with imperishable imagery, and steeped
in sentiment fresh as the morning on life's golden hills. Yet there is mercy in this dispensation--for
who can bear to behold the light of bliss re-arising from the past on the ghastlier gloom of
present misery? The phantoms that will not come when we call on them to comfort us, are too
often at our side when in our anguish we could almost pray that they might be reburied in oblivion.
Such hauntings as these are not as if they were visionary--they come and go like forms and
shapes still imbued with life. Shall we vainly stretch out our arms to embrace and hold them
fast, or as vainly seek to intrench ourselves by thoughts of this world against their visitation?
The soul in its sickness knows not whether it be the duty of love to resign itself to indifference
or to despair. Shall it enjoy life, they being dead! Shall we the survivors, for yet a little
while, walk in other companionship out into the day, and let the sunbeams settle on their heads
as they used to do, or cover them with dust and ashes, and show to those in heaven that love
for them is now best expressed by remorse and penitence!

Sometimes we have fears about our memory--that it is decaying; for, lately, many ordinary yet
interesting occurrences and events, which we regarded at the time with pain or pleasure, have
been slipping away almost into oblivion, and have often alarmed us of a sudden by their return,
not to any act of recollection, but of themselves, sometimes wretchedly out of place and season,
the mournful obtruding upon the merry, and worse, the merry upon the mournful--confusion, by
no fault of ours, of piteous and of gladsome faces--tears where smiles were a duty as well
as a delight, and smiles where nature demanded, and religion hallowed, a sacrifice of tears.

For a good many years we have been tied to town in winter by fetters as fine as frostwork filigree,
which we could not break without destroying a whole world of endearment. That seems an obscure
image; but it means what the Germans would call in English--our winter environment. We are
imprisoned in a net of our own weaving--an invisible net; yet we can see it when we choose--just
as a bird can see, when he chooses, the wires of his cage, that are invisible in his happiness,
as he keeps hopping and fluttering about all day long, or haply dreaming on his perch with
his poll under his plumes--as free in confinement as if let loose into the boundless sky. That
seems an obscure image too; but we mean, in truth, the prison unto which we doom ourselves
no prison is; and we have improved on that idea, for we have built our own--and are prisoner,
turnkey, and jailer all in one, and 'tis noiseless as the house of sleep. Or what if we declare
that Christopher North is a king in his palace, with no subjects but his own thoughts--his
rule peaceful over those lights and shadows--and undisputed to reign over them his right divine.

The opening year in a town, now, answers in all things to our heart's desire. How beautiful
the smoky air! The clouds have a homely look as they hang over the happy families of houses,
and seem as if they loved their birthplace; all unlike those heartless clouds that keep stravaiging
over mountain-tops, and have no domicile in the sky! Poets speak of living rocks, but what
is their life to that of houses? Who ever saw a rock with eyes--that is, with windows? Stone-blind
all, and stone-deaf, and with hearts of stone; whereas who ever saw a house without eyes--that
is, windows? Our own is an Argus; yet the good old Conservative grudges not the assessed taxes--his
optics are as cheerful as the day that lends them light, and they love to salute the setting
sun, as if a hundred beacons, level above level, were kindled along a mountain side. He might
safely be pronounced a madman who preferred an avenue of trees to a street. Why, trees have
no chimneys; and, were you to kindle a fire in the hollow of an oak, you would soon be as dead
as a Druid. It won't do to talk to us of sap, and the circulation of sap. A grove in winter,
bole and branch--leaves it has none--is as dry as a volume of sermons. But a street, or a square,
is full of "vital sparks of heavenly flame" as a volume of poetry, and the heart's blood circulates
through the system like rosy wine.

But a truce to comparisons; for we are beginning to feel contrition for our crime against the
country, and, with humbled head and heart, we beseech you to pardon us--ye rocks of Pavey-Ark,
the pillared palaces of the storms--ye clouds, now wreathing a diadem for the forehead of Helvellyn--ye
trees, that hang the shadows of your undying beauty over the "one perfect chrysolite" of blessed
Windermere!

Our meaning is transparent now as the hand of an apparition waving peace and goodwill to all
dwellers in the land of dreams. In plainer but not simpler words (for words are like flowers,
often rich in their simplicity--witness the Lily, and Solomon's Song)--Christian people all,
we wish you a Merry Christmas and Happy New-Year, in town or in country--or in ships at sea.

A Happy New-Year!--Ah! ere this ARIA, sung sotto voce, reach your ears (eyes are ears, and
ears eyes), the week of all weeks will be over and gone, and the New-Year will seem growing
out of the old year's ashes!--for the year is your only Phoenix. But what with time to do has
a wish--a hope--a prayer! Their power is in the Spirit that gives them birth. And what is Spirit
but the well-head of thoughts and feelings flowing and overflowing all life, yet leaving the
well-head full of water as ever--so lucid, that on your gazing intently into its depths, it
seems to become a large soft spiritual eye, reflecting the heavens and the earth; and no one
knows what the heavens and the earth are, till he has seen them there--for that God made the
heavens and the earth we feel from that beautiful revelation--and where feeling is not, knowledge
is dead, and a blank the universe. Love is life. The unloving merely breathe. A single sweet
beat of the heart is token of something spiritual that will be with us again in Paradise. "O,
bliss and beauty! are these our feelings"--thought we once in a dream--"all circling in the
sunshine--fair-plumed in a flight of doves!" The vision kept sailing on the sky--"to and fro
for our delight"--no sound on their wings more than on their breasts; and they melted away
in light as if they were composed of light--and in the hush we heard high-up and far-off music--as
of an angel's song.

That was a dream of the mysterious night; but now we are broad awake--and see no emblematical
phantoms, but the mere sights of the common day. But sufficient for the day is the beauty thereof--and
it inspires us with affection for all beneath the skies. Will the whole world, then, promise
henceforth to love us?--and we promise henceforth to love the whole world.

It seems the easiest of all easy things to be kind and good--and then it is so pleasant! "Self-love
and social are the same," beyond all question; and in that lies the nobility of our nature.
The intensest feeling of self is that of belonging to a brotherhood. All selves then know they
have duties which are in truth loves--and loves are joys--whether breathed in silence, or uttered
in words, or embodied in actions; and if they filled all life, then all life would be good--and
heaven would be no more than a better earth. And how may all men go to heaven? By making themselves
a heaven on earth, and thus preparing their spirits to breathe empyreal air when they have
dropped the dust. And how may they make for themselves a heaven on earth? By building up a
happy HOME FOR THE HEART. Much, but not all--oh! not nearly all--is in the site. But it must
be within the precincts of the holy ground--and within hearing of the waters of life.

Pleasures of Imagination! Pleasures of Memory! Pleasures of Hope! All three most delightful
poems; yet all the thoughts and all the feelings that inspired them--etherealised--will not
make--FAITH! "The day-spring from on high hath visited us!" Blessed is he who feels that line--nor
need his heart die within him, were a voice to be heard at midnight saying--"This New-Year's
day shall be thy last!"

One voice--one young voice--all by its sweet, sad, solitary self, singing to us a Christmas
Hymn! Listening to that music is like looking at the sky with all its stars.

Was it a spirit?

    "Millions of spiritual creatures walk unseen,
    Sole or responsive to each other's voice,
    Hymning their great Creator."

No, the singer, like ourselves, is mortal; and in that thought, to our hearts, lies the pathos
of her prayers. The angels, veiling their faces with their wings, sing in their bliss hallelujahs
round the throne of heaven; but she--a poor child of clay, with her face veiled but with the
shades of humility and contrition, while

    "Some natural tears she drops, but wipes them soon,"--

sings, in her sorrow, supplications to be suffered to see afar-off its everlasting gates--opening
not surely for her own sake--for all of woman born are sinful--and even she in what love calls
her innocence feels that her fallen being does of itself deserve but to die. The hymn is fading
away, liker and liker an echo, and our spirit having lost it in the distance, returns back
holier to the heart-hush of home.

The million hunger and thirst after the stronger and darker passions; nothing will go down
with them but the intense. They are intolerant--or careless--or even ashamed of those emotions
and affections that compose the blessing of our daily life, and give its lustre to the fire
on the hearth of every Christian household. Yet, for all that, they are inexperienced in those
same stronger and darker passions of which they prate, and know nothing of the import of those
pictures of them painted, with background of gloom and foreground of fire, in the works of
the truly great masters. The disturbed spirit of such delineations is far beyond the reaches
of their souls; and they mistake their own senseless stupor for solemn awe--or their own mere
physical excitement for the enthusiasm of imagination soaring through the storm on the wings
of intellect. There are such things in "Satan's Invisible World Displayed" in poetry, as strong
and dark passions; and they who are acquainted with their origin and end call them bad passions;
but the good passions are not dark, but bright--and they are strong too, stronger than death
or the grave.

All human beings who know how to reap

        "The harvest of a quiet eye,
    That broods and sleeps on its own heart,"

feel, by the touch, the flowers of affection in every handful of beauty they gather up from
those fortunate fields on which shines, for ever through all seasons, the sun of life. How
soft the leaves! and, as they meet the eye, how fair! Framed, so might it seem, of green dew
consolidated into fragrance. Nor do they fade when gently taken from their stalk on its native
bed. They flourish for ever if you bruise them not--sensitive indeed; and, if you are so forgetful
as to treat them rashly, like those of the plant that bears that name, they shrink, and seem
to shrivel for a time--growing pale, as if upbraiding your harshness; but cherished, they are
seen to be all of

    "Immortal amaranth, the tree that grows
    Fast by the throne of God;"

for the seeds have fallen from heaven to earth, and for eighteen hundred years have been spreading
themselves over all soils fit for their reception--and what soil is not fit? Even fit are stony
places, and places full of thorns. For they will live and grow there in spite of such obstruction--and
among rank and matted weeds will often be seen peering out like primroses gladdening the desert.

That voice again--"One of old Scotland's songs, so sad and slow!" Her heart is now blamelessly
with things of earth. "Sad and slow!" and most purely sweet. Almost mournful although it be,
it breathes of happiness--for the joy dearest to the soul has ever a faint tinge of grief.
O innocent enchantress! thou encirclest us with a wavering haze of beautiful imagery, by the
spell of that voice awakening after a mood of awe, but for thy own delight. From the long dim
tracts of the past come strangely blended recognitions of woe and bliss, undistinguishable
now to our own heart--nor knows that heart if it be a dream of imagination or of memory. Yet
why should we wonder? In our happiest hours there may have been something in common with our
most sorrowful--some shade of sadness cast over them by a passing cloud, that now allies them
in retrospect with the sombre spirit of grief; and in our unhappiest hours there may have been
gleams of gladness, that seem now to give the return the calm character of peace. Do not all
thoughts and feelings, almost all events, seem to resemble each other--when they are dreamt
of as all past? All receive a sort of sanctification in the stillness of the time that has
gone by--just like the human being whom they adorned or degraded--when they, too, are at last
buried together in the bosom of the same earth.

Perhaps none among us ever wrote verses of any worth, who had not been, more or less, readers
of our old ballads. All our poets have been so--and even Wordsworth would not have been the
veritable and only Wordsworth, had he not in boyhood pored--oh, the miser!--over Percy's "Reliques."
From the highest to the humblest, they have all drunk from those silver springs. Shepherds
and herdsmen and woodsmen have been the masters of the mighty--their strains have, like the
voice of a solitary lute, inspired a power of sadness into the hearts of great poets that gave
their genius to be prevalent over all tears, or with a power of sublimity that gave it dominion
over all terror, like the sound of a trumpet. "The Babes in the Wood!" "Chevy Chace!" Men become
women while they weep--

    "Or start up heroes from the glorious strain."

Sing then "The Dirge," my Margaret, to the Old Man, "so tender and so true" to the spirit of
those old ballads, which we might think were written by Pity's self.

DIRGE.

    "O dig a grave, and dig it deep,
    Where I and my true love may sleep!
      We'll dig a grave, and dig it deep,
      Where thou and thy true love shall sleep!

    And let it be five fathom low,
    Where winter winds may never blow!--
      And it shall be five fathom low,
      Where winter winds shall never blow!

    And let it be on yonder hill,
    Where grows the mountain daffodil!--
      And it shall be on yonder hill,
      Where grows the mountain daffodil!

    And plant it round with holy briers,
    To fright away the fairy fires!--
      We'll plant it round with holy briers!
      To fright away the fairy fires!

    And set it round with celandine,
    And nodding heads of columbine!--
      We'll set it round with celandine,
      And nodding heads of columbine!

    And let the ruddock build his nest
    Just above my true love's breast!--
      The ruddock he shall build his nest
      Just above thy true love's breast!

    And warble his sweet wintry song
    O'er our dwelling all day long!
      And he shall warble his sweet song
      O'er your dwelling all day long.

    Now, tender friends, my garments take,
    And lay me out for Jesus' sake!
      And we will now thy garments take,
      And lay thee out for Jesus' sake!

    And lay me by my true love's side,
    That I may be a faithful bride!--
      We'll lay thee by thy true love's side,
      That thou may'st be a faithful bride!"

Ay--ay--thou too art gone, WILLIAM STANLEY ROSCOE! What years have flown since we walked among
the "alleys green" of Allerton with thee and thy illustrious father! and who ever conversed
with him for a few hours in and about his own home--where the stream of life flowed on so full
and clear--without carrying away impressions that never seemed to be remembrances--so vivid
have they remained amidst the obscurations and obliterations of Time, that sweeps with his
wings all that lies on the surface, but has no power to disturb, much less destroy, the record
printed on the heart.

We are all of us getting old--or older; nor would we, for our own part--if we could--renew
our youth. Methinks the river of life is nobler as it nears the sea. The young are dancing
in their skiffs on the pellucid shallows near the source on the Sacred Mountains of the Golden
East. They whose lot it is to be in their prime, are dropping down the longer and wider reaches,
that seem wheeling by with their sylvan amphitheatres, as if the beauty were moving morn-wards,
while the voyagers are stationary among the shadows, or slowly descending the stream to meet
the meridian day. Many forget

    "The torrent's smoothness ere it dash below,"

and are lost in the roaring whirlpool. Under Providence, we see ourselves on the river expanded
into a sea-like lake, or arm of the sea; and for all our soul has escaped and suffered, we
look up to the stars in gratitude--and down to the stars--for the water too is full of stars
as well as the sky--faint and dim indeed--but blended by the pervading spirit of beauty, with
the brighter and bolder luminaries reposing on infinitude.

OUR WINTER QUARTERS.

BUCHANAN LODGE--for a few months--farewell! 'Tis the Twelfth of November; and for the City
we leave thee not without reluctance, early in March by the blessing of Heaven again to creep
into thy blooming bourne. Yet now and then we shall take a drive down, to while away a sunny
forenoon among thy undecaying evergreens, to breathe the balm of thy Christmas roses, and for
one Gentle bosom to cull the earliest crocuses that may be yellowing through the thin snows
of Spring.

In truth, we know not well why we should ever leave thee, for thou art the Darling of all the
Seasons; and Winter, so churlish elsewhere, is ever bland to thee, and, daily alighting in
these gardens, loves to fold and unfold, in the cool sunshine, the stainless splendour of his
pale-plumaged wings. But we are no hermit. Dear to us though Nature be, here, hand-in-hand
with Art walking through our peaceful but not unpeopled POLICY, a voice comes to us from the
city-heart--winning us away from the stillness of solitude into the stir of life. Milton speaks
of a region

    "Above the stir and smoke of this dim spot,
    Which men call earth;"

and oft have we visited it; but while yet we pursue the ends of this our mortal being, in the
mystery of the brain whence ideas arise, and in the mystery of the heart whence emotions flow--kindred
and congenial all--thought ever blending with feeling, reason with imagination, and conscience
with passion--'tis our duty to draw our delight from intercommunion with the spirit of our
kind. Weakest or wickedest of mortals are your soul-sick, life-loathing, world-wearied men.
In solitude we are prone to be swallowed up in selfishness; and out of selfishness what sins
and crimes may not grow! At the best, moral stagnation ensues--and the spirit becomes, like
"a green-mantled pool," the abode of reptiles. Then ever welcome to us be living faces, and
living voices, the light and the music of reality--dearer far than any mere ideas or emotions
hanging or floating aloof by themselves in the atmosphere of imagination. Blest be the cordial
grasp of the hand of friendship--blest the tender embrace of the arms of love! Nay, smile not,
fair reader, at an old man's fervour; for Love is a gracious spirit, who deserteth not declining
age.

The DROSKY is at the door--and, my eye! what a figure is Peter! There he sits, like a bear,
with the ribbons in his paws--no part visible of his human face or form divine, but his small
red eyes--and his ruby nose, whose re-grown enormity laughs at Liston. One little month ago,
the knife of that skilful chirurgeon pared it down to the dimensions of a Christian proboscis.
Again 'tis like a wart on a frost-reddened Swedish turnip. Pretty Poll, with small delicate
pale features, sits beside him like a snowdrop. How shaggy since he returned from our last
Highland tour is Filho da Puta! His mane long as his tail--and the hair on his ears like that
on his fetlocks. He absolutely reminds us of Hogg's Bonassus. Ay, bless these patent steps--on
the same principle as those by which we ascend our nightly couch--we are self-deposited in
our Drosky. Oh! the lazy luxury of an air-seat! We seem to be sitting on nothing but a voluptuous
warmth, restorative as a bath. And then what furry softness envelopes our feet! Yes--Mrs Gentle--Mrs
Gentle--thy Cashmere shawl, twined round our bust, feels almost as silken-smooth as thine own,
and scented is it with the balm of thy own lips. Boreas blows on it tenderly as a zephyr--and
the wintry sunshine seems summery as it plays on the celestial colours. Thy pelisse, too, over
our old happy shoulders, purple as the neck of the dove when careering round his mate. Thy
comforter, too, in our bosom--till the dear, delightful, delicious, wicked worsted thrills
through skin and flesh to our very heart. It dirls. Drive away, Peter. Farewell Lodge--and
welcome, in a jiffy, Moray Place.

And now, doucely and decently sitting in our Drosky, behold us driven by Peter, proud as Punch
to tool along the staring streets the great-grandson of the Desert-born! Yet--yet--couldst
thou lead the field, Filho, with old Kit Castor on thy spine. But though our day be not quite
gone by, we think we see the stealing shades of eve, and, a little further on in the solemn
vista, the darkness of night; and therefore, like wise children of nature, not unproud of the
past, not ungrateful for the present, and unfearful of the future, thus do we now skim along
the road of life, broad and smooth to our heart's content, able to pay the turnpikes, and willing,
when we shall have reached the end of our journey, to lie down, in hope, at the goal.

What pretty, little, low lines of garden-fronted cottages! leading us along out of rural into
suburban cheerfulness, across the Bridge, and past the Oriental-looking Oil-Gas Works, with
a sweep winding into the full view of PITT Street (what a glorious name!) steep as some straight
cliff-glen, and an approach truly majestic--yea, call it at once magnificent--right up to the
great city's heart. "There goes Old Christopher North!" the bright boys in the playground of
the New Academy exclaim. God bless you, you little rascals!--We could almost find it in our
heart to ask the Rector for a holiday. But, under him, all your days are holidays--for when
the precious hours of study are enlightened by a classic spirit, how naturally do they melt
into those of play!

Descending from our Drosky, we find No. 99 Moray Place, exhibiting throughout all its calm
interior the self-same expression it wore the day we left it for the Lodge, eight months ago.
There is our venerable winter Hat--as like Ourselves, it is said, as he can stare--sitting
on the Circular in the Entrance-hall. Everything has been tenderly dusted as if by hands that
touched with a Sabbath feeling; and though the furniture cannot be said to be new, yet while
it is in all sobered, it is in nothing faded. You are at first unaware of its richness on account
of its simplicity--its grace is felt gradually to grow out of its comfort--and that which you
thought but ease lightens into elegance, while there is but one image in nature which can adequately
express its repose--that of a hill-sheltered field by sunset, under a fresh-fallen vest of
virgin snow. For then snow blushes with a faint crimson--nay, sometimes when Sol is extraordinarily
splendid, not faint, but with a gorgeousness of colouring that fears not to face in rivalry
the western clouds.

Let no man have two houses with one set of furniture. Home's deepest delight is undisturbance.
Some people think no articles fixtures--not even grates. But sofas and ottomans, and chairs
and footstools, and screens--and above all, beds--all are fixtures in the dwelling of a wise
man, cognoscitive and sensitive of the blessings of this life. Each has its own place assigned
to it by the taste, tact, and feeling of the master of the mansion, where order and elegance
minister to comfort, and comfort is but a homely word for happiness. In various moods we vary
their arrangement--nor is even the easiest of all Easy-chairs secure for life against being
gently pushed on his wheels from chimney-nook to window-corner, when the sunshine may have
extinguished the fire, and the blue sky tempts the Paterfamilias, or him who is but an uncle,
to lie back with half-shut eyes, and gaze upon the cheerful purity, even like a shepherd on
the hill. But these little occasional disarrangements serve but to preserve the spirit of permanent
arrangement, without which the very virtue of domesticity dies. What sacrilege, therefore,
against the Lares and Penates, to turn a whole house topsy-turvy, from garret to cellar, regularly
as May-flowers deck the zone of the year! Why, a Turkey or a Persian, or even a Wilton or a
Kidderminster carpet, is as much the garb of the wooden floor inside, as the grass is of the
earthen floor outside of your house. Would you lift and lay down the greensward? But without
further illustration--be assured the cases are kindred--and so, too, with sofas and shrubs,
tent-beds and trees. Independently, however, of these analogies, not fanciful, but lying deep
in the nature of things, the inside of one's tabernacle, in town and country, ought ever to
be sacred from all radical revolutionary movements, and to lie for ever in a waking dream of
graceful repose. All our affections towards lifeless things become tenderer and deeper in the
continuous and unbroken flow of domestic habit. The eye gets lovingly familiarised with each
object occupying its own peculiar and appropriate place, and feels in a moment when the most
insignificant is missing or removed. We say not a word about children, for fortunately, since
we are yet unmarried, we have none; but even they, if brought up Christians, are no dissenters
from this creed, and however rackety in the nursery, in an orderly-kept parlour or drawing-room
how like so many pretty little white mice do they glide cannily along the floor! Let no such
horror, then, as a flitting ever befall us or our friends! O mercy! only look at a long huge
train of waggons, heaped up to the windows of the first floors, moving along the dust-driving
or mire-choked streets with furniture from a gutted town-house towards one standing in the
rural shades with an empty stomach! All is dimmed or destroyed--chairs crushed on the table-land,
and four-posted beds lying helplessly with their astonished feet up to heaven--a sight that
might make the angels weep!

People have wondered why we, an old barren bachelor, should live in such a large house. It
is a palace; but never was there a greater mistake than to seek the solution in our pride.
Silence can be had but in a large house. And silence is the chief condition of home happiness.
We could now hear a leaf fall--a leaf of the finest wire-wove. Peter and Betty, Polly and the
rest, inhabit the second sunk story--and it is delightful to know that they may be kicking
up the most infernal disturbance at this blessed moment, and tearing out each other's hair
in handfuls, without the faintest whisper of the uproar reaching us in our altitude above the
drawing-room flat. On New-Year's Day morning there is regularly a competition of bagpipers
in the kitchen, and we could fondly imagine 'tis an Eolian Harp. In his pantry Peter practised
for years on the shrill clarion, and for years on the echoing horn; yet had he thrown up both
instruments in despair of perfection ere we so much as knew that he had commenced his musical
studies. In the sunk story, immediately below that, having been for a season consumptive, we
kept a Jenny ass and her daughter--and though we believe it was not unheard around Moray and
Ainslie Places, and even in Charlotte Square, we cannot charge our memory with an audit of
their bray. In the sunk story immediately below that again, that distinguished officer on half-pay,
Captain Campbell of the Highlanders--when on a visit to us for a year or two--though we seldom
saw him--got up a Sma' still--and though a more harmless creature could not be, there he used
to sit for hours together, with the worm that never dies. On one occasion, it having been supposed
by Peter that the Captain had gone to the East Neuk of Fife, weeks elapsed, we remember, ere
he was found sitting dead, just as if he had been alive, in his usual attitude in his arm-chair,
commanding a view of the precipice of the back court.

Just as quiet are the Attics. They, too, are furnished; for the feeling of there being one
unfurnished room, however small, in the largest house, disturbs the entire state of mind of
such an occupant, and when cherished and dwelt on, which it must not unfrequently be, inspires
a cold air of desolation throughout the domicile, till "thoughts of flitting rise." There is
no lumber-room. The room containing Blue-Beard's murdered wives might in idea be entered without
distraction by a bold mind.--But oh! the lumber-room, into which, on an early walk through
the house of a friend on whom we had been sorning, all unprepared did we once set our foot!
From the moment--and it was but for a moment, and about six o'clock--far away in the country--that
appalling vision met our eyes--till we found ourselves, about another six o'clock, in Moray
Place, we have no memory of the flight of time. Part of the journey--or voyage--we suspect,
was performed in a steamer. The noise of knocking, and puffing, and splashing seems to be in
our inner ears; but after all it may have been a sail-boat, possibly a yacht!--In the Attics
an Aviary open to the sky. And to us below, the many voices, softened into one sometimes in
the pauses of severer thought, are sometimes very affecting, so serenely sweet it seems, as
the laverock's in our youth at the gates of heaven.

At our door stand the Guardian Genii, Sleep and Silence. We had an ear to them in the building
of our house, and planned it after a long summer day's perusal of the "Castle of Indolence."
O Jemmy Thomson! Jemmy Thomson!--O that thou and we had been rowers in the same boat on the
silent river! Rowers, indeed! Short the spells and far between that we should have taken--the
one would not have turned round the other, but when the oar chanced to drop out of his listless
hand--and the canoe would have been allowed to drift with the stream, unobservant we of our
backward course, and wondering and then ceasing to wonder at the slow-receding beauty of the
hanging banks of grove--the cloud-mountains, immovable as those of earth, and in spirit one world.

Ay! Great noise as we have made in the world--our heart's desire is for silence--its delight
is in peace. And is it not so with all men, turbulent as may have been their lives, who have
ever looked into their own being? The soul longs for peace in itself; therefore, wherever it
discerns it, it rejoices in the image of which it seeks the reality. The serene human countenance,
the wide water sleeping in the moonlight, the stainless marble-depth of the immeasurable heavens,
reflect to it that tranquillity which it imagines within itself, though it never long dwelt
there, restless as a dove on a dark tree that cannot be happy but in the sunshine. It loves
to look on what it loves, even though it cannot possess it; and hence its feeling, on contemplating
such calm, is not of simple repose, but desire stirs in it, as if it would fain blend itself
more deeply with the quiet it beholds! The sleep of a desert would not so affect it; it is
Beauty that makes the difference--that attracts spirit to matter, while spirit becomes not
thereby materialised--but matter spiritualised; and we fluctuate in the air-boat of imagination
between earth and heaven. In most and in all great instances there is apprehension, dim and
faint, or more distinct, of pervasion of a spirit throughout that which we conceive Beautiful.
Stars, the moon, the deep bright ether, waters, the rainbow, a pure lovely flower--none of
them ever appear to us, or are believed by us to be mere physical and unconscious dead aggregates
of atoms. That is what they are; but we could have no pleasure in them, if we knew them as
such. There is illusion, then, of some sort, and to what does it amount? We cannot well tell.
But if there is really a love in human hearts to these distant orbs--if there is an emotion
of tenderness to the fair, opening, breathing blossom that we would not crush it--"in gentleness
of heart touch, for there is a spirit in the leaves"--it must be that we do not see them as
they are, but "create a soul under the ribs of death."

Now you do believe that we do love Silence--and every other thing worthy to be loved--you and
yours--and even that romp, your shock-headed Coz, to whom Priscilla Tomboy was an Imogen.

All our ceilings are deadened--we walk ankle-deep in carpeting--nobody is suffered to open
a door but ourselves--and they are so constructed, that it is out of their power to slam. Our
winter furniture is all massy--deepening the repose. In all the large rooms two fireplaces--and
fires are kept perpetually burning day and night, in them all, which, reflected from spacious
mirrors, give the mansion quite the appearance of a Pandemonium. Not gas always. Palm-oil burns
scentless as moonlight; and when motion, not rest, in a place is signified, we accompany ourselves
with a wax candle, or taper from time immemorial green. Yet think not that there is a blaze
of light. We have seen the midnight heaven and earth nearly as bright, with but one moon and
a small scatter of stars. And places of glimmer--and places of gloom--and places "deaf to sound
and blind to light" there are in this our mansion, known but to ourselves--cells--penitentiaries--where
an old man may sit sighing and groaning, or stupified in his misery--or at times almost happy.
So senseless, and worse than senseless, seems then all mortal tribulation and anguish, while
the self-communing soul is assured, by its own profound responses, that "whatever is, is best."

And thus is our domicile a domain--a kingdom. We should not care to be confined to it all the
rest of our days. Seldom, indeed, do we leave our own door--yet call on us, and ten to one
you hear us in winter chirping like a cricket, or in summer like a grasshopper. We have the
whole range of the house to ourselves, and many an Excursion make we on the Crutch. Ascending
and descending the wide-winding stair-cases, each broad step not above two inches high, we
find ourselves on spacious landing-places illumined by the dim religious light of stained windows,
on which pilgrims, and palmers, and prophets, single or in pairs or troops, are travelling
on missions through glens or forests or by sea-shores--or shepherd piping in the shade, or
poet playing with the tangles of Neæra's hair. We have discovered a new principle on which,
within narrow bounds, we have constructed Panoramic Dioramas, that show splendid segments of
the great circle of the world. We paint all of them ourselves--now a Poussin, now a Thomson,
now a Claude, now a Turner, now a Rubens, now a Danby, now a Salvator, now a Maclise.

Most people, nay, we suspect all people but ourselves, make a point of sleeping in the same
bed (that is awkwardly expressed) all life through; and out of that bed many of them avow their
inability to "bow an eye;" such is the power of custom, of habit, of use and wont, over weary
mortals even in the blessing of sleep. No such slavish fidelity do we observe towards any one
bed of the numerous beds in our mansion. No one dormitory is entitled to plume itself, in the
pride of its heart, on being peculiarly Ours; nor is any one suffered to sink into despondency
from being debarred the privilege of contributing to Our repose. They are all furnished, if
not luxuriously, comfortably in the extreme; in number, nine--each, of course, with its two
dressing-rooms--those on the same story communicating with one another, and with the parlours,
drawing-rooms, and libraries--"a mighty maze, but not without a plan," and all harmoniously
combined by one prevailing and pervading spirit of quietude by day and by night, awake or asleep--the
chairs being couch-like, the couches bed-like, the beds, whether tent or canopy, enveloped
in a drapery of dreams.

We go to bed at no stated hour--but when we are tired of sitting up, then do we lie down; at
any time of the night or the day; and we rise, neither with the lark, nor the swallow, nor
the sparrow, nor the cock, nor the owl, nor the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars, nor Lucifer,
nor Aurora, but with Christopher North. Yellow, or green, or blue, or crimson, or fawn, or
orange, or pinky light salutes our eyes, as sleep's visionary worlds recede and relapse into
airy nothing, and as we know of a certainty that these are real web-and-woof damask curtains,
that flock palpable on substantial walls.

True wisdom soon accommodates itself even to involuntary or inevitable change--but to that
which flows from our own sweet will, however sudden and strong, it instantly moulds itself
in a novel delight, with all its familiar and domestic habits. Why, we have not been in 99
Moray Place for a week--nay, not for two days and nights--till you might swear we had been
all our life a Cit, we look so like a Native. The rustic air of the Lodge has entirely left
us, and all our movements are metropolitan. You see before you a Gentleman of the Old School,
who knows that the eyes of the town are upon him when he seeks the open air, and who preserves,
even in the privacy of the parlour, that dignity of dress and demeanour which, during winter,
befits his age, his rank, and his character. Now, we shave every morning; John, who in his
boyish days served under Barbarossa, lightly passes the comb through our "sable silvered;"
and then, in our shawl dressing-gown, we descend about ten to our study, and sit, not unstately,
beside the hissing urn at our protracted breakfast. In one little month or less, "or ere our
shoes are old," we feel as if we had belonged to this house alone, and it to us, from our birth.
The Lodge is seen to be standing in its stillness, far away! Dear memories of the pensive past
now and then come floating upon the cheerful present--like birds of fairest plumage floating
far inland from the main. But there is no idle longing--no vain regret. This, we say, is true
wisdom. For each scene and season--each pleasure and place--ought to be trusted to itself in
the economy of human life, and to be allowed its own proper power over our spirit. People in
the country are often restless to return to town--and people in town unhappy till they rush
away into the country--thus cheating their entire existence out of its natural calm and satisfaction.
Not so we. We give both their due--and that due is an almost undivided delight in each while
we live under its reign. For Nature, believe us, is no jealous mistress. She is an affectionate
wife, who, being assured of his fidelity, is not afraid to trust her husband out of her sight,

    "When still the town affairs do call him thence,"

and who waits with cheerful patience for his return, duly welcomed with a conjugal shower of
smiles and kisses.

But what is this we see before us? Winter--we declare--and in full fig with his powdered wig!
On the mid-day of November, absolutely snow! a full, fair, and free fall of indisputable snow.

Not the slightest idea had we, the day before, that a single flake had yet been formed in the
atmosphere, which, on closing of our shutters, looked through the clear-obscure, indicative
of a still night and a bright morning. But we had not seen the moon. She, we are told by an
eyewitness, early in the evening, stared from the south-east, "through the misty horizontal
air," with a face of portentous magnitude and brazen hue, symptomatic, so weatherwise seers
do say, of the approach of the Snow-king. On such occasions it requires all one's astronomical
science to distinguish between sun and moon; for then sister resembles brother in that wan
splendour, and you wonder for a moment, as the large beamless orb (how unlike Dian's silver
bow!) is in ascension, what can have brought the lord of day, at this untimeous hour, from
his sea-couch behind the mountains of the west. Yet during the night-calm we suspected snow--for
the hush of the heavens had that downy feel, to our half-sleeping fancy, that belongs to the
eider-pillow in which disappears our aged, honoured, and un-nightcap'd head. Looking out by
peep of day--rather a ghostlike appearance in our long night-shirt, which trails a regal train--we
beheld the fair feathers dimly descending through the glimmer, while momently the world kept
whitening and whitening, till we knew not our home-returning white cat on what was yesterday
the back-green, but by the sable tail that singularly shoots from the rump of that phenomenon.
We were delighted. Into the cold plunge-bath we played plop like a salmon--and came out as
red as a cut of that incomparable fish. One ply of leather--one of flannel--and one of the
linen fine; and then the suit of pepper-and-salt over all; and you behold us welcoming, hailing,
and blessing the return of day. Frost, too, felt at the finger and toe tips--and in unequivocal
true-blue at the point, Pensive Public, of thy Grecian or Roman nose. Furs, at once, are all
the rage; the month of muffs has come; and round the neck of Eve, and every one of all her
daughters, is seen harmlessly coiling a boa-constrictor. On their lovely cheeks the Christmas
roses are already in full blow, and the heart of Christopher North sings aloud for joy. Furred,
muffed, and boa'd, Mrs Gentle adventures abroad in the blast; and, shouldering his Crutch,
the rough, ready, and ruddy old man shows how widows are won, whispers in that delicate ear
of the publication of bans, and points his gouty toe towards the hymeneal altar. In the bracing
air, his frame is strung like Paganini's fiddle, and he is felt to be irresistible in the piggicato.
"Lord of his presence, and small land beside," what cares he even for a knight of the Guelphic
order? On his breast shines a star--may it never prove a cross--beyond bestowal by king or
kaisar; nor is Maga's self jealous or envious of these wedded loves. And who knows but that
ere another November snow sheets the Shotts, a curious little Kit, with the word North distinctly
traceable in blue letters on the whites of his eyes, may not be playing antics on his mother's
knee, and with the true Tory face in miniature, smiling upon the guardian of the merry fellow's
own and his country's constitution?

What kind of a Winter--we wonder--are we to have in the way of wind and weather? We trust it
will be severe. As summer set in with his usual severity, Winter must not be behindhand with
him; but after an occasional week's rain of a commendably boisterous character, must come out
in full fig of frost. He has two suits which we greatly admire, combining the splendour of
a court-dress with the strength of a work-day garb--we mean his garments of black and his garments
of white frost. He looks best in the former, we think, on to about Christmas--and the latter
become the old gentleman well from that festival season, on to about the day sacred to a class
of persons who will never read our Recreations.

Of all the months of the year, November--in our climate--whether in town or country, bears
the worst character. He is almost universally thought to be a sour, sulky, sullen, savage,
dim, dull, dark, disconsolate, yet designing month--in fewer words, a month scarcely fit to
live. Abhorring all personalities, we repent having sometimes given in to this national abuse
of November. We know him well--and though we admit at once that he is no beauty, and that his
manners are at the best bluff, at the worst repulsive, yet on those who choose to cultivate
his acquaintance, his character continues so to mellow and ameliorate itself, that they come
at last, if not to love, to like him, and even to prefer his company "in the season of the
year," to that of other more brilliant visitors. So true is it with months and men, that it
requires only to know the most unpleasant of them, and to see them during a favourable phasis,
in order to regard them with that Christian complacency which a good heart sheds over all its
habits. 'Tis unlucky for November--poor fellow!--that he follows October. October is a month
so much admired by the world, that we often wonder he has not been spoiled. "What a glorious
October!" "Why, you will surely not leave us till October comes!" "October is the month of
all months--and, till you see him, you have not seen the Lakes." We acknowledge his claims.
He is often truly delightful; but, like other brilliant persons, thinks himself not only privileged
to be at times extremely dull, but his intensest stupidity is panegyrised as wit of the first
water--while his not unfrequent rudeness, of which many a common month would be ashamed, passes
for the ease of high birth or the eccentricity of genius. A very different feeling indeed exists
towards unfortunate November. The moment he shows his face, all other faces are glum. We defy
month or man, under such a trial, to make himself even tolerably agreeable. He feels that he
is no favourite, and that a most sinister misinterpretation will be put on all his motions,
manners, thoughts, words, and deeds. A man or a month so circumstanced is much to be pitied.
Think, look, speak, act as he will--yea, even more like an angel than a man or a month--every
eyebrow arches--every nostril distends--every lip curls towards him in contempt, while blow
over the ice that enchains all his feelings and faculties, heavy-chill whisperings of "who
is that disagreeable fellow?" In such a frozen atmosphere, eloquence would be congealed on
the lips of an Ulysses--Poetry prosified on those of an Apollo.

Edinburgh, during the dead of Summer, is a far more solitary place than Glenetive, Glenevis,
or Glenco. There is not, however, so much danger of being lost in it as in the Moor of Rannoch--for
streets and squares, though then utterly tenantless, are useful as landmarks to the pilgrim
passing through what seems to be

    "A still forsaken City of the Dead!"

But, like a frost-bound river suddenly dissolved by a strong thaw, and coming down in spate
from the mountains to the low lands, about the beginning of November life annually re-overflows
our metropolis, with a noise like "the rushing of many chariots." The streets, that for months
had been like the stony channels of dried-up streams--only not quite so well paved--are again
all a-murmur, and people addicted to the study of political economy begin to hold

    "Each strange tale devoutly true"

in the Malthusian theory of population. What swarms keep hovering round the great Northern
Hive! Add eke after eke to the skep, and still seems it too small to contain all the insects.
Edinburgh is almost as large as London. Nay, don't stare! We speak comparatively; and as England
is somewhere about six times more populous than Scotland, you may, by brushing up your arithmetic,
and applying to the Census, discover that we are not so far wrong in our apparent paradox.

Were November in himself a far more wearifu' month than he is, Edinburgh would nevertheless
be gladsome in the midst of all his gloom, even as a wood in May with the Gathering of the
Clans. The country flows into the town--all its life seems to do so--and to leave nothing behind
but the bare trees and hedges. Equipages again go glittering along all the streets, squares,
circuses, and crescents; and one might think that the entire "nation of ladies and gentlemen"--for
King George the Fourth, we presume, meant to include the sex in his compliment--were moving
through their metropolis. Amusement and business walk hand-in-hand--you hardly know, from their
cheerful countenances, which is which; for the Scots, though a high-cheeked, are not an ill-favoured
folk in their features--and though their mouths are somewhat of the widest, their teeth are
white as well as sharp, and on the opening of their ruddy lips, their ivory-cases are still
further brightened by hearty smiles. 'Twould be false to say that their figures are distinguished
by an air of fashion--for we have no court, and our nobles are almost all absentees. But though,
in one sense, the men are ugly customers, as they will find

    "Who chance to tread upon their freeborn toe,"

yet, literally, they are a comely crew, and if formed into battalions in marching order, would
make the National Guard in Paris look like

                "That small infantry
    Warr'd on by cranes."

Our females have figures that can thaw any frost; and 'tis universally allowed that they walk
well, though their style of pedestrianism does not so readily recall to the imagination Virgil's
picture of Camilla flying along the heads of corn without touching their ears, as the images
of paviers with post-looking mallets driving down dislodged stones into the streets. Intermingling
with the lighter and more elastic footsteps of your Southron dames, the ongoings of our native
virgins produce a pleasant variety of motion in the forenoon mêlée that along the Street of
Princes now goes nodding in the sun-glint.

    "Amid the general dance and minstrelsy"

who would wear a long face, unless it were in sympathy with his length of ears? A din of multitudinous
joy hums in the air; you cannot see the city for the houses, its inhabitants for the people;
and as for finding one particular acquaintance in the crowd, why, to use an elegant simile,
you might as well go search for a needle in a bottle of hay.

But hark! a hollow sound, distant, and as yet referred to no distinct place--then a faint mixture
of a clear chime that is almost music--now a tune--and at last, rousing the massy multitude
to enthusiasm, a military march, swelling various, profound, and high, with drum, trombone,
serpent, trump, clarionet, fife, flute, and cymbal, bringing slowly on (is it the measured
tramp of the feet of men, or the confused trampling of horses?) banners floating over the procession,
above the glitter of steel, and the golden glow of helmets. 'Tis a regiment of cavalry--hurra!
the Carbineers! What an Advanced Guard!

    "There England sends her men, of men the chief,"

still, staid, bold, bronzed faces, with keen eyes, looking straight forward from between sabres;
while beneath the equable but haughty motion of their steeds, almost disciplined as their riders,
with long black horse-hair flowing in martial majesty, nod their high Roman casques. The sweet
storm of music has been passing by while we were gazing, and is now somewhat deadened by the
retiring distance and by that mass of buildings (how the windows are alive, and agaze with
faces!) while troop after troop comes on, still moving, it is felt by all, to the motion of
the warlike tune, though now across the Waterloo Bridge sounding like an echo, till the glorious
war-pageant is all gone by, and the dull day is deadened down again into the stillness and
silence of an ignoble peace.

    "Now all the youth of Scotland are on fire!"

All her cities and towns are rejoicing in the welcome Winter; and mind, invigorated by holidays,
is now at work, like a giant refreshed, in all professions. The busy bar growls, grumphs, squeaks,
like an old sow with a litter of pigs pretending to be quarrelling about straws. Enter the
Outer or the Inner House, and you hear eloquence that would have put Cicero to the blush, and
reduced Demosthenes to his original stutter. The wigs of the Judges seem to have been growing
during the long vacation, and to have expanded into an ampler wisdom. Seldom have we seen a
more solemn set of men. Every one looks more gash than another, and those three in the centre
seem to us the embodied spirits of Law, Equity, and Justice. What can be the meaning of all
this endless litigation? On what immutable principles in human nature depends the prosperity
of the Fee-fund? Life is strife. Inestimable the blessing of the great institution of Property!
For without it, how could people go together by the ears, as if they would tear one another
to pieces? All the strong, we must not call them bad passions, denied their natural element,
would find out some channels to run in, far more destructive to the commonweal than lawsuits,
and the people would be reduced to the lowest ebb of misery, and raised to the highest flow
of crime. Our Parliament House here is a vast safety-valve for the escape of the foul steam
that would otherwise explode and shatter the engine of the State, blowing the body and members
of society to smash. As it is, how the engine works! There it goes! like Erickson's Novelty
or Stephenson's Rocket along a railroad; and though an accident may occur now and then, such
as an occasional passenger chucked by some uncalculated collision into the distant horizon,
to be picked up whole, or in fragments, by the hoers in some turnip-field in the adjacent county,
yet few or none are likely to be fatal on a great scale; and on goes the Novelty or Rocket,
like a thought, with many weighty considerations after it, in the shape of waggons of Christians
or cottons, while Manufactures and Commerce exult in the cause of Liberty and Locomotion all
over the world.

But to us utter idlesse is perfect bliss. And why? Because, like a lull at sea, or lown on
land, it is felt to descend from Heaven on man's toilsome lot. The lull and the lown, what
are they when most profound, but the transient cessation of the restlessness of winds and waters--a
change wrought for an hour of peace in the heart of the hurricane! Therefore the sailor enjoys
it on the green wave--the shepherd on the greensward; while the memory of mists and storms
deepens the enchantment. Even so, Idlesse can be enjoyed but by those who are permitted to
indulge it, while enduring the labours of an active or a contemplative life. To use another,
and a still livelier image--see the pedlar toiling along the dusty road, with an enormous pack,
on his excursion; and when off his aching shoulders slowly falls back on the bank the loosened
load, in blessed relief think ye not that he enjoys, like a very poet, the beauty of the butterflies
that, wavering through the air, settle down on the wildflowers around him that embroider the
wayside! Yet our pedlar is not so much either of an entomologist or a botanist as not to take
out his scrip, and eat his bread and cheese with a mute prayer and a munching appetite--not
idle, it must be confessed, in that sense--but in every other idle even as the shadow of the
sycamore, beneath which, with his eyes half-open--for by hypothesis he is a Scotsman--he finally
sinks into a wakeful, but quiet half-sleep. "Hallo! why are you sleeping there, you idle fellow?"
bawls some beadle, or some overseer, or some magistrate, or perhaps merely one of those private
persons who, out of season and in season, are constantly sending the sluggard to the ant to
learn wisdom--though the ant, Heaven bless her! at proper times sleeps as sound as a sick-nurse.

We are now the idlest, because once were we the most industrious of men. Up to the time that
we engaged to take an occasional glance over the self-growing sheets of The Periodical, we
were tied to one of the oars that move along the great vessel of life; and we believe that
it was allowed by all the best watermen, that

    "We feather'd our oars with skill and dexterity."

But ever since we became an Editor, our repose, bodily and mental, has been like that of a
Hindoo god. Often do we sit whole winter nights, leaning back on our chair, more like the image
of a man than a man himself, with shut eyes, that keep seeing in succession all the things
that ever happened to us, and all the persons that we ever loved, hated, or despised, embraced,
beat, or insulted, since we were a little boy. They too have all an image-like appearance,
and 'tis wondrous strange how silent they all are, actors and actresses on the stage of that
revived drama, which sometimes seems to be a genteel comedy, and sometimes a broad farce, and
then to undergo dreadful transfiguration into a tragedy deep as death.

We presume that the Public read in her own papers--we cannot be but hurt that no account of
it has appeared in the "Court Journal"--that on Thursday the 12th current, No. 99 Moray Place
was illuminated by our annual Soireé, Conversazione, Rout, Ball, and Supper. A Ball! yes--for
Christopher North, acting in the spirit of his favourite James Thomson,--

                "No purpose gay,
    Amusement, dance, or song he sternly scorns;
    For happiness and true philosophy
    Are of the social, still, and smiling kind."

All the rooms in the house were thrown open, except the cellars and the Sanctum. To the people
congregated outside, the building, we have been assured, had all the brilliancy of the Bude
Light. It was like a palace of light, of which the framework or skeleton was of white unveined
marble. So strong was the reflection on the nocturnal heavens, that a rumour ran through the
City that there was a great fire in Moray Place, nor did it subside till after the arrival
and departure of several engines. The alarm of some huge conflagration prevailed during most
part of the night all over the kingdom of Fife; while, in the Lothians, our illumination was
much admired as an uncommonly fine specimen of the Aurora Borealis.

                "From the arch'd roof,
    Pendent by subtle magic, many a row
    Of starry lamps and blazing cressets, fed
    With naphtha and asphaltus, yielded light
    As from a sky. The hasty multitude
    Admiring enter'd."

We need not say who received the company, and with what grace SHE did so, standing at the first
landing-place of the great staircase in sable stole; for the widow's weeds have not yet been
doffed for the robes of saffron--with a Queen-Mary cap pointed in the front of her serene and
ample forehead, and, to please us, a few pearls sprinkled among her hair, still an unfaded
auburn, and on her bosom one star-bright diamond. Had the old General himself come to life
again, and beheld her then and there, he could not have been offended with such simple ornaments.
The weeds he would have felt due to him, and all that his memory was fairly entitled to; but
the flowers--to speak figuratively--he would have cheerfully acknowledged were due to us, and
that they well became both face and figure of his lovely relict. As she moved from one room
to another, showering around her serene smiles, we felt the dignity of those Virgilian words,

    "Incedit Regina."

Surely there is something very poetical in the gradual flowing in of the tide of grace, elegance,
and beauty, over the floors of a suite of regal-looking rooms, splendidly illuminated. Each
party as it comes on has its own peculiar picturesqueness, and affects the heart or imagination
by some novel charm, gently gliding onward a little while by itself, as if not unconscious
of its own attractions, nor unproud of the gaze of perhaps critical admiration that attends
its progressive movement. We confess ourselves partial to plumes of feathers above the radiant
braidings of the silken tresses on the heads of virgins and matrons--provided they be not "dumpy
women"--tall, white, blue, and pink plumes, silent in their wavings as gossamer, and as finely
delicate, stirred up by your very breath as you bend down to salute their cheeks--not with
kisses--for they would be out of order both of time and place--but with words almost as tender
as kisses, and awakening almost as tender a return--a few sweet syllables breathed in a silver
voice, with blushing cheeks, and downcast eyes that, when again uplifted, are seen to be from
heaven.

A long hour ago, and all the mansion was empty and motionless--with us two alone sitting by
each other's side affectionately and respectfully on a sofa. Now it is filled with life, and
heard you ever such a happy murmur? Yet no one in particular looks as if he or she were speaking
much above breath, so gentle is true refinement, like a delightful fragrance

    "From the calm manners quietly exhaled."

Oh! the atrocious wickedness of a great, big, hearty, huge, hulking, horse-laugh, in an assemblage
of ladies and gentlemen, gathered gracefully together to enjoy the courtesies, the amenities,
the urbanities, and the humanities of cultivated Christian life! The pagan who perpetrates
it should be burnt alive--not at a slow fire--though that would be but justice--but at a quick
one--that all remnants of him and his enormity may be instantly extinguished. Lord Chesterfield
has been loudly laughed at with leathern lungs for his anathema against laughter. But though
often wrong, there his lordship was right, and for that one single rule of manners he deserves
a monument, as having been one of the benefactors of his species. Let smiles mantle--and that
sweet, soft, low sound be heard, the susurrus. Let there be a many-voiced quiet music, like
that of the summer moonlight sea when the stars are in its breast. But laughter--loud peals
of laughter--are like breakers--blind breakers on a blind coast, where no verdure grows except
that of tangle, and whatever is made into that vulgarist of all commodities, kelp.

'Tis not a literary conversazione, mind ye, gentle reader; for we leave that to S. T. Coleridge,
the Monarch of the Monologue. But all speak--talk--whisper--or smile, of all the speakable,
talkable, whisperable, and smileable little interesting affairs, incidents, and occurrences,
real or fabulous, of public, private, demi-public, or demi-semi-private life. Topics are as
plentiful as snow-flakes, and melt away as fast in the stream of social pleasure,

    "A moment white, then gone for ever!"

Not a little scandal--much gossip, we daresay; but as for scandal, it is the vulgarest error
in the world to think that it either means, or does any harm to any mortal. It does infinite
good. It ventilates the atmosphere, and prevents the "golden-fretted vault" from becoming "a
foul congregation of vapours." As for gossip, what other vindication does it need, than an
order for you to look at a soirée of swallows in September on a slate-roof, the most innocent
and white-breasted creatures that pay

    "Their annual visits round the globe,
    Companions of the sun,"

but such gossipers that the whole air is a-twitter with their talk about their neighbours'
nest--when--whew! off and away they go, winnowing their way westwards, through the setting
sunlight, and all in perfect amity with themselves and their kind, while

    "The world is all before them, where to choose,
    And Providence their guide."

And, madam, you do not matronise--and, sir, you do not patronise--waltzing? 'Tis very O fie-fieish,
you think--and in danger of becoming very, very faux-papa-ish!

    "Oh! the great goodness of the knights of old,"

whose mind-motto was still--

    "Honi soit qui mal y pense!"

Judging by ourselves, 'tis a wicked world we unwillingly confess; but be not terrified at trifles,
we beseech you, and be not gross in your censure of innocent and delicate delights. Byron's
exquisitely sensitive modesty was shocked by the sight of waltzing, which he would not have
suffered the Guiccioli, while she was in his keeping, to have indulged in even with her own
husband. Thus it is that sinners see sin only where it is not--and shut their eyes to it when
it comes upon them open-armed, bare-bosomed, and brazen-faced, and clutches them in a grasp
more like the hug of a bear than the embrace of a woman. Away with such mawkish modesty and
mouthing morality--for 'tis the slang of the hypocrite. Waltzing does our old eyes good to
look on it, when the whole Circling Flight goes gracefully and airily on its orbit, and we
think we see the realisation of that picture (we are sad misquoters) when the Hours--

    "Knit by the Graces and the Loves in dance,
    Lead on the eternal spring!"

But the Circling Flight breaks into airy fragments, the Instrumental Band is hushed, and so
is the whole central Drawing-room; for, blushingly obedient to the old man's beck, THE STAR
OF EVE--so call we her who is our heart's-ease and heart's-delight--the granddaughter of one
whom hopelessly we loved in youth, yet with no unreturned passion--but

    "The course of true love never yet ran smooth"--

