Temple Lands in Scotland (Vol. viii., p. 317.).--Your correspondent ABREDONENSIS, upon a reference
to the undernoted publications, will find many interesting particulars as to these lands, viz.:

    1. Sm.
    4to. 1828-29."

    2. "Abstract of the Charters and other Papers recorded in the
    Chartulary of Torphichen, from 1581 to 1596; with an Introductory
    Notice and Notes, by John Black Gracie. Sm. 4to. 1830."

    3. "Notes of Charters, &c., by the Right Hon. Thomas Earl of Melrose,
    afterwards Earl of Haddington, to the Vassals of the Barony of Drem,
    from 1615 to 1627; with an Introductory Notice, by John Black Gracie.
    Sm. 4to. 1830."

    4. "Fragmenta Scoto-Monastica: Memoir of what has been already done,
    and what Materials exist, towards the Formation of a Scottish
    Monasticon; to which are appended, Sundry New Instances of Goodly
    Matter, by a Delver in Antiquity (W. B. Turnbull). 8vo. 1842."

The "Introductory Notices" prefixed to Nos. 2. and 3. give full particulars of the various
sales and purchases of the Superioritus, &c., by Mr. Gracie and others.

T. G. S.

Edinburgh.

Lewis and Sewell Families (Vol. viii., p. 388.).--Your correspondent may obtain, in respect
to the Lewis family, much information in the Life and Correspondence of Matthew Gregory Lewis,
two vols. 8vo., London, 1839, particularly at pp. 6. and 7. of vol. i. He will there find that
Matthew Lewis, Esq., who was Deputy Secretary of War for twenty-six years, married Frances
Sewell, youngest daughter of the Right Hon. Sir Thos. Sewell; that Lieut.-Gen. Whitelocke and
Gen. Sir Thos. Brownrigg, G.C.B., married the other two daughters of Sir Thos. Sewell; and
that Matthew Gregory Lewis, who wrote the Castle Spectre, &c., was son of Matthew Lewis, Esq.,
the Deputy Secretary of War.

With regard to the Sewell family. The Right Hon. Sir Thos. Sewell, who was Master of the Rolls
for twenty years, died in 1784; and there is, I believe, a very correct account of his family
connexions in the Gentleman's Magazine for 1784, p. 555. He died intestate, and his eldest
son, Thos. Bailey Heath Sewell, succeeded to his estate of Ottershaw and the manors of Stannards
and Fords in Chobham, Surrey. This gentleman was a magistrate for the county of Surrey; and
in the spring of 1794, when this country was threatened by both foreign and domestic enemies,
he became Lieut.-Col. of a regiment of Light Dragoons (fencibles), raised in Surrey (at Richmond)
by George Lord Onslow, Lord-Lieut. of the county, in which he served six years, till the Government
not requiring their services they were disbanded. Lieut.-Col. Sewell died in 1803, and was
buried in the church at Chobham, where there is a monument to his memory. Of his family we
have not farther knowledge than that he had a son, Thos. The History and Antiquities of Surrey,
by the Rev. Owen Manning and Wm. Bray, in three vols. folio, 1804, has in the third volume
much concerning the Sewell family.

D. N.

Pharaoh's Ring (Vol. viii., p. 416.).--The mention of the ring conferred on, or confided to,
Joseph by the Pharaoh of Egypt, as stated in Genesis xli. 42., reminds me of a ring being shown
to me some years ago, which was believed by its then possessor to be the identical ring, or
at all events a signet ring of the very Pharaoh who promoted Joseph to the chief office in
his kingdom.

It was a ring of pure gold, running through a hole in a massive wedge of gold, about the size,
as far as I recollect, of a moderate-sized walnut. On one of its faces was cut the hieroglyphic
(inclosed as usual with the names of Egyptian kings in an oval), as I was assured, of the king,
the friend of Joseph, as was generally supposed by the readers of hieroglyphics: I pretend
to no knowledge of them myself.

The possessor of the ring, who showed it to me, was Mr. Sams, one of the Society of Friends,
a bookseller at Darlington. Since railroads have {522} whirled me past that town, I have lost
my means of periodical communication with him. He had, not long before I saw him last, returned
from the Holy Land, where he assured me he had visited every spot that could be identified
mentioned in the New Testament. He had also been some time in Egypt, and had brought home a
great quantity of Egyptian antiquities. The lesser ones he had in the first floor of a carver
and gilder's in Great Queen Street, between the Freemason's Tavern and Lincoln's Inn Fields.
He was then anxious that these should be bought for the British Museum, and I think that at
his request I wrote to the Earl of Aberdeen to mention this, and that the answer was that there
was already so large a collection in the Museum, that more, as they must most of them be duplicates,
would be of no use.

What has become of them I know not. I was told that a number of his larger antiquities, stone
and marble, were for some time placed on Waterloo Bridge, that being a very quiet place, where
people might view them without interruption. I did not happen to be in London that season,
and therefore did not see them.

J. SS.

    [The whole of Mr. Sams's collection of Egyptian antiquities were bought
    by Joseph Mayer, Esq, F.S.A., of Liverpool, about two years ago, to add
    to his previous assemblage of similar monuments, and are placed by him,
    with a very valuable collection of mediæval antiquities, in the
    Egyptian Museum, 8. Colquitt Street, Liverpool. The small charge of
    sixpence for each visit opens the entire collection to the public; but
    it is a lamentable fact, that the curiosity or patriotism of the
    inhabitants does not cover Mr. Mayer's expenses by a large annual
    amount.]

"Could we with ink," &c. (Vol. iii., pp. 127. 180. 257. 422.).--Have not those correspondents
who have answered this Query overlooked the concluding verse of the gospel according to St.
John, of which it appears to me that the lines in question are an amplification without improvement?
Mahomet, it is well known, imitated many parts of the Bible in the Koran.

E. G. R.

"Populus vult decipi" (Vol. vii., p. 578.; Vol. viii, p. 65.).--As an illustration of this
expression the following anecdote is given. When my father was about thirteen years old, being
in London he was, on one occasion in company with Dr. Wolcot (Peter Pindar), who, calling him
to him, laid his hand on his head, and said, "My little boy, I want you to remember one thing
as long as you live--the people of this world love to be cheated."

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

Red Hair (Vol. vii., p. 616.; Vol. viii., p. 86.).--It is frequently stated that the Turks
are admirers of red hair. I have lately met with a somewhat different account, namely, that
the Turks consider red-haired persons who are fat as "first-rate" people, but those who are
lean as the very reverse.

M. E.

Philadelphia.

"Land of Green Ginger" (Vol. viii., p. 227.).--The authority which I am able to afford MR.
RICHARDSON is simply the tradition of the place, which I had so frequently heard that I could
scarcely doubt the truth of it; this I intended to be deduced, when I said I did not recollect
that the local histories gave any derivation, and that it was the one "generally received by
the inhabitants."

To any mind the solution brought forward by MR. BUCKTON (Vol. viii., p. 303.) carries the greatest
amount of probability with it of any yet proposed; and should any of your correspondents have
the opportunity of looking through the unpublished history of Hull by the Rev. De la Pryme,
"collected out of all the records, charters, deeds, mayors' letters, &c. of the said town,"
and now placed amongst the Lansdowne MSS. in the British Museum, I am inclined to think it
is very likely it would be substantiated.

In Mr. Frost's valuable work on the town, which by the way proves it to have been "a place
of opulence and note at a period long anterior to the date assigned to its existence by historians,"
he differs materially from MR. RICHARDSON, in considering that Hollar's plate was "engraved
about the year 1630," not in 1640 as he states. There is also another which appeared between
the time of Hollar and Gent, in Meisner's Libellus novus politicus emblematicus Civitatum,
published in 1638, which though not "remarkable for accuracy of design," is well worthy of
notice. It bears the title "Hull in Engellandt," and also the following curious inscriptions,
which I copy for the interest of your readers:

    "Carcer nonnunquam firmum propugnaculum. Noctua clausa manet in carcere
    firmo; Insidias volucrum vetat enim cavea."

     "Wann die Eull eingesperret ist,
      Schadet ihr nicht der Feinde list,
      Der Kefig ist ihr nicht unnütz,
      Sondern gibt wieder ihr Feind schütz."

These lines refer to a curious engraving on the left side of the plan, representing an owl
imprisoned in a cage with a quantity of birds about, endeavouring to assail it.

R. W. ELLIOT.

Clifton.

"I put a spoke in his wheel" (Vol. viii., p. 351.).--Does not this phrase mean simply interference,
either for good or evil? I fancy the metaphor is really derived from putting the bars, or spokes,
into a capstan or some such machine. A number {523} of persons being employed, another puts
his spoke in, and assists or hinders them as he pleases. Can a stick be considered a spoke
before it is put into its place, in the nave of the wheel at least? We often hear the observation,
"Then I put in my spoke," &c. in the relation of an animated discussion. May I venture to suggest
a pun on the preterite of the verb to speak?

G. WILLIAM SKYRING.

Pagoda (Vol. viii., p. 401.).--May not the word pagoda be a corruption of the Sanscrit word
"Bhagovata," sacred?

BISHOP OF BRECHIN.

Dundee.

Passage in Virgil (Vol. viii., p. 270.).--On this part of Johnson's letter, Mr. Croker observes:

    "I confess I do not see the object, nor indeed the meaning, of this
    allusion."

The allusion is to Eclogue viii. 43.:

 "Nunc scio, quid sit Amor: duris in cotibus illum
  Aut Tmarus, aut Rhodope, aut extremi Garamantes,
  Nec generis nostri puerum nec sanguinis, edunt."

As the shepherd in Virgil had found Love to be not the gentle being he expected, but of a savage
race--"a native of the rocks"--so had Johnson found a patron to be "one who looked with unconcern
on a man struggling for life," instead of a friend to render assistance.

Supposing Johnson's estimate of Lord Chesterfield's conduct to be correct, I cannot help thinking
the allusion to be eminently happy.

J. KELWAY.

To speak in Lutestring (Vol. viii., p. 202.).--Lutestring, or lustring, is a particular kind
of silk, and so is taffeta; and thus the phrase may be explained by Shakspeare's Love's Labour's
Lost, Act V. Sc. 8.:

 "Taffeta phrases, silken terms precise."

Junius intended to ridicule such kind of affectation by persons who were, or ought to have
been, grave senators.

J. KELWAY.

Dog Latin (Vol. viii., p. 218.).--A facetious friend, alluding particularly to law Latin with
its curious abbreviations, says that it is so called because it is cur-tailed!

J. KELWAY.

Longevity (Vol. viii., p. 113.).--I recollect seeing an old sailor in the town of Larne, county
Antrim, Ireland, in the year 1826-27, of the name of Philip Lake, aged 110, who was said to
have been a cabin boy in Lord Anson's vessel, in one of his voyages. If any of your correspondents
can furnish the registry of his death it would be interesting.

FRAS. CROSSLEY.

Mary Simondson, familiarly known as "Aunt Polly," died recently at her cottage near Shippensburg,
Pennsylvania, at the advanced age of 126 years.

M. E.

Philadelphia.

Definition of a Proverb (Vol. viii., p. 243.)--C. M. INGLEBY inquires the source of the following
definition of proverb, viz. "The wisdom of many, and the wit of one."

    "To Lord John Russell are we indebted for that admirable definition of
    a proverb: 'The wisdom,' &c."--See Notes to Rogers's Italy, 1848.

The date is added since, in an edition of 1842; this remark makes no part of the note on the
line, "If but a sinew vibrate," &c.

Q. T.

Ireland a bastinadoed Elephant (Vol. viii., p. 366.).--I venture to suggest whether this expression
may not be something more than a bull, as [Old English W]. inclines to call it. If any one
will look at a physical map of Ireland at some little distance, a very slight exercise of the
"mind's eye" will serve to call up in the figure of that island the shape of a creature kneeling
and in pain. Lough Foyle forms the eye; the coast from Bengore Head to Benmore Head the nose
or snout; Belfast Lough the mouth; the coast below Donaghdee the chin; County Wexford the knees.
The rest of the outline, according to the imagination of the observer, may assume that of an
elephant, or something, perhaps, "very like a whale." Some fanciful observation of this kind
may have suggested the otherwise unaccountable simile to Curran.

POLONIUS.

Ennui (Vol. vii., p. 478.; Vol. viii., p. 377.).--The meaning of this admirable word is best
gleaned from its root, viz. nuit. It is somewhat equivalent to the Greek [Greek: agrupnia],
and signifies the sense of weariness with doing nothing. It gives the lie to the dolce far
niente: vide Ps. cxxx. 6., and Job vii. 3, 4. Ennui is closely allied to our annoy or annoyance,
through noceo, noxa, and their probable root nox, [Greek: nux.] It is precisely equivalent
to the Latin tædium, which may be derived from tæda, which in the plural means a torch, and
through that word may have a side reference to night, the tædarum horæ: cf. Ps. xci. 5. The
subject is worthy of strict inquiry on the part of comparative philologists.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

Belle Sauvage (Vol. viii., p. 388.).--Your Philadelphian correspondent asks whether Blue Bell,
Blue Anchor, &c., are corruptions of some other emblem, such as that which in London transformed
La Belle Sauvage into the Bell Savage.

This is not the fact. The Bell Savage on Ludgate Hill was originally kept by one Isabella Savage.
A cotemporary historian, writing of one of the leaders in a rebellion in the days of Queen
{524} Mary, says, "He then sat down upon a stone opposite to Bell Savage's Inn."

JAMES EDMESTON.

Homerton.

History of York (Vol. viii., p. 125.).--There is a History of York, published in 1785 by Wilson
and Spence, described to be an abridgment of Drake, which is in three volumes, and may be a
later edition of the same work to which MR. ELLIOT alludes.

F. T. M.

86. Cannon Street.

Encore (Vol. viii., p. 387.).--If A. A. knows the meaning of "this French word" I am a little
surprised at his Query. Perhaps he means to ask why a French word should be used? It probably
was first used at concerts and operas (ancora in Italian), where the performers and even the
performances were foreign, and so became the fashion. Pope says:

 "To the same notes thy sons shall hum or snore,
  And all thy yawning daughters cry encore."

It was not, I think, in use so early as Shakspeare's time, who makes Bottom anticipate that
"the Duke shall say, Let him roar again, let him roar again," where the jingle of "encore"
would have been obvious. It is somewhat curious that where we use the French word encore, the
French audiences use the Latin word "bis."

C.

"Hauling over the Coals" (Vol. viii., p. 125.).--This saying I conceive to have arisen from
the custom prevalent in olden times, when every Baron was supreme in his own castle, of extracting
money from the unfortunate Jews who happened to fall into his power, by means of torture. The
most usual modus operandi seems to have been roasting the victims over a slow fire. Every one
remembers the treatment of Isaac of York by Front-de-Boeuf, so vividly described in Sir Walter
Scott's Ivanhoe. Although the practice has long been numbered amongst the things that were,
the fact of its having once obtained is handed down to posterity in this saying, as when any
one is taken to task for his shortcomings he is hauled over the coals.

JOHN P. STILWELL.

Dorking.

The Words "Cash" and "Mob" (Vol. viii., p. 386.).--MR. FOX was right: mob is not genuine English--teste
Dean Swift! A lady who was well known to Swift used to say that the greatest scrape she ever
got into with him was by using the word mob. "Why do you say that?" he exclaimed in a passion;
"never let me hear you say that again!" "Why, sir," she asked, "what am I to say?" "The rabble,
to be sure," answered he. (Sir W. Scott's Works of Swift, vol. ix.) The word appears to have
been introduced about the commencement of the eighteenth century, by a process to which we
owe many other and similar barbarisms--"beauties introduced to supply the want of wit, sense,
humour, and learning." In a paper of The Tatler, No. 230., much in the spirit, and possibly
from the pen, of Swift, complaint is made of the "abbreviations and elisions" which had recently
been introduced, and a humorous example of them is given.

I have only to add (see Blackwood's Magazine, vol. ii., 1842) that "mob is mobile."

Cash appears to be from the French caisse, a chest, cash.

J. W. THOMAS.

Dewsbury.

Cash is from the French caisse, the moneychest where specie was kept. So caissier became "cashier,"
and specie "cash."

Mob, Swift tells us (Polite Conversation, Introd.), is a contraction for mobile.

CLERICUS RUSTICUS has not, I fear, Johnson's Dictionary, where both these derivations are given.
The fact is, this is itself a corruption. In old spelling-books, after the twenty-six letters
it was customary to print the two following symbols with their explanations

  &c. et cetera.
  & (per se), and.

Children were taught to read the above "et-cee, et cetera" and "et-per-se, and." Such, at least,
was the case in a Dublin school, some ninety years ago, where my informant, now many years
deceased, was educated. As se was not there pronounced like cee, but like say, there was no
danger of confounding the two names. In England, where a different pronunciation of the Latin
word prevailed, such confusion would be apt to occur; and hence, probably, English teachers
substituted and for et; from which, in course of time, the other corruptions mentioned by MR.
LOWER were developed.

E. H. D. D.

{525}

The Keate Family, of the Hoo, Herts (Vol. viii., p. 293.).--The following account is taken
from Burke's Extinct and Dormant Baronetcies of England, Lond. 1841:

    "William Keate of Hagbourne, in Berkshire, left five sons. The second
    son, Ralph Keate of Whaddon, in Wiltshire, married Anne, daughter of
    John Clarke, Esq., of Ardington, in Berkshire, and had with other issue
    Gilbert Keate, Esq., of London, who married, first, John, daughter of
    Niclolas Turbervile, Esq. of Crediton, in Devon, and, secondly,
    Elizabeth, daughter of William Armstrong, Esq., of Remston, Notts, and
    by her had another son, Jonathan Keate, Esq., of the Hoo, in the county
    of Hertford, which estate he acquired with his first wife, Susannah
    daughter of William, and sister and heir of Thomas Hoo, of the Hoo and
    Kimpton, both in Hertfordshire. Mr. Keate was created a baronet by King
    Charles II., 12th June, 1660. Sir Jonathan was sheriff of the county of
    Hertford, 17 Charles II., and knight of the same shire in Parliament,
    in the thirtieth of the same reign. By his first wife he had issue,
    Gilbert Hoo, his heir, Jonathan, Susan, Elizabeth: all died sine
    prole. He married, secondly, Susanna, daughter of John Orlebar,
    citizen of London, but by her had no issue. He died 17th September,
    1700. The baronetcy became extinct in the person of Sir William Keate,
    D.D., who died 6th March, 1757."

[Greek: Halieus]

Hour-glasses (Vol. viii., p. 454.).--In the church of Wiggenhall, St. Mary the Virgin, the
iron frame of an hour-glass, affixed to a wooden stand, immediately opposite the pulpit, still
remains.

W. B. D.

An iron hour-glass stand still remains near the pulpit in the church of Ashby-Folville, in
this county (Leicester). It is fixed to the wall containing the staircase to the rood-loft.

In the old church of Anstey, recently pulled down and rebuilt, was an ancient hour-glass stand,
consisting of a pillar of oak, about four feet high, the top of which is surmounted by a light
framework of wood for the reception of the hour-glass. This specimen is preserved in the museum
of this town.

WILLIAM KELLY.

Marriage of Cousins (Vol. viii., p. 387.).--If there is any foundation for such a statement
as is contained in the Query of J. P. relative to the marriage of cousins, it consists rather
in the marriage of first cousins once removed than of second cousins. It will be seen that
the latter relationship belongs to the same generation, but it is not so with the former, which
partakes more of the nature of uncle and aunt with nephew and niece.

W. SLOANE SLOANE-EVANS.

Cornworthy Vicarage, Totnes.

There is no legal foundation for the statement that marriage with a second cousin is valid,
and with a first cousin invalid. The following quotation from Burn's Ecc. Law by Phill., vol.
ii. p. 449., will probably be considered to explain the matter:

    "By the civil law first cousins are allowed to marry, but by the canon
    law both first and second cousins (in order to make dispensations more
    frequent and necessary) are prohibited; therefore, when it is vulgarly
    said that first cousins may marry, but second cousins cannot, probably
    this arose by confounding these two laws, for first cousins may marry
    by the civil law, and second cousins cannot by the canon law."

J. G.

Exon.

Waugh, Bishop of Carlisle (Vol. viii., p. 271.), was the son of Thomas and Margaret Waugh,
of Appleby, in Westmoreland; born there 2nd February, 1655; educated at Appleby school; matriculated
at Queen's College, Oxford, 4th of April, 1679; took his degree of M.A. the 7th of July, 1687;
and elected Fellow on the 18th of January following. He married Elizabeth, widow of the Rev.
Mr. Fiddes, rector of Bridewell, in Oxford, who was the only surviving child of John Machen,
Esq., of ----, in the county of Oxford, by whom he left son, John Waugh, afterwards chancellor
of the diocese of Carlisle.

KARLEOLENSIS.

Marriage Service (Vol. viii., p. 150.).--I have been many years in holy orders, and have always
received the fee together with the ring on the Prayer Book, as directed in the Rubric. The
ring I return to the bridegroom to place upon the bride's finger; the fee (or offering) I deposit
in the offertory basin, held for that purpose by the clerk, and on going to the chancel (the
marriage taking place in the body of the church) lay it on the altar. Note.--In the parish
in which I first ministered, the marriages had always been commenced in the body of the church,
as directed; in the second parish in which I ministered, that custom had only been broken by
the present incumbent a few years since.

A RECTOR.

I have seen the Rubric carried out in this particular, in St. Mary's Church, Kidderminster.

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

