It may be said of him that he knew his own so well as to justify him in repudiating counsel
from others.  There are very different ideas of what "a fortune" may be supposed to consist.
It will not be necessary to give Dr. Wortle's exact idea.  No doubt it changed with him, increasing
as his money increased.  But he was supposed to be a comfortable man.  He paid ready money
and high prices.  He liked that people under him should thrive,--and he liked them to know
that they throve by his means.  He liked to be master, and always was.  He was just, and liked
his justice to be recognised.  He was generous also, and liked that, too, to be known. He kept
a carriage for his wife, who had been the daughter of a poor clergyman at Windsor, and was
proud to see her as well dressed as the wife of any county squire.  But he was a domineering
husband.  As his wife worshipped him, and regarded him as a Jupiter on earth from whose nod
there could be and should be no appeal, but little harm came from this. If a tyrant, he was
an affectionate tyrant.  His wife felt him to be so. His servants, his parish, and his school
all felt him to be so.  They obeyed him, loved him, and believed in him.

So, upon the whole, at the time with which we are dealing, did the diocese, the county, and
that world of parents by whom the boys were sent to his school.  But this had not come about
without some hard fighting. He was over fifty years of age, and had been Rector of Bowick for
nearly twenty.  During that time there had been a succession of three bishops, and he had quarrelled
more or less with all of them.  It might be juster to say that they had all of them had more
or less of occasion to find fault with him.  Now Dr. Wortle,--or Mr. Wortle, as he should be
called in reference to that period,--was a man who would bear censure from no human being.
He had left his position at Eton because the Head-master had required from him some slight
change of practice.  There had been no quarrel on that occasion, but Mr. Wortle had gone. 
He at once commenced his school at Bowick, taking half-a-dozen pupils into his own house. 
The bishop of that day suggested that the cure of the souls of the parishioners of Bowick was
being subordinated to the Latin and Greek of the sons of the nobility.  The bishop got a response
which gave an additional satisfaction to his speedy translation to a more comfortable diocese.
Between the next bishop and Mr. Wortle there was, unfortunately, misunderstanding, and almost
feud for the entire ten years during which his lordship reigned in the Palace of Broughton.
This Bishop of Broughton had been one of that large batch of Low Church prelates who were brought
forward under Lord Palmerston.  Among them there was none more low, more pious, more sincere,
or more given to interference.  To teach Mr. Wortle his duty as a parish clergyman was evidently
a necessity to such a bishop. To repudiate any such teaching was evidently a necessity to Mr.
Wortle. Consequently there were differences, in all of which Mr. Wortle carried his own.  What
the good bishop suffered no one probably knew except his wife and his domestic chaplain.  What
Mr. Wortle enjoyed,--or Dr. Wortle, as he came to be called about this time,--was patent to
all the county and all the diocese.  The sufferer died, not, let us hope, by means of the Doctor;
and then came the third bishop.  He, too, had found himself obliged to say a word.  He was
a man of the world,--wise, prudent, not given to interference or fault-finding, friendly by
nature, one who altogether hated a quarrel, a bishop beyond all things determined to be the
friend of his clergymen;--and yet he thought himself obliged to say a word.  There were matters
in which Dr. Wortle affected a peculiarly anti-clerical mode of expression, if not of feeling.
He had been foolish enough to declare openly that he was in search of a curate who should have
none of the "grace of godliness" about him.  He was wont to ridicule the piety of young men
who devoted themselves entirely to their religious offices.  In a letter which he wrote he
spoke of one youthful divine as "a conceited ass who had preached for forty minutes."  He not
only disliked, but openly ridiculed all signs of a special pietistic bearing.  It was said
of him that he had been heard to swear.  There can be no doubt that he made himself wilfully
distasteful to many of his stricter brethren. Then it came to pass that there was a correspondence
between him and the bishop as to that outspoken desire of his for a curate without the grace
of godliness.  But even here Dr. Wortle was successful.  The management of his parish was pre-eminently
good.  The parish school was a model.  The farmers went to church.  Dissenters there were none.
The people of Bowick believed thoroughly in their parson, and knew the comfort of having an
open-handed, well-to-do gentleman in the village.  This third episcopal difficulty did not
endure long.  Dr. Wortle knew his man, and was willing enough to be on good terms with his
bishop so long as he was allowed to be in all things his own master.

There had, too, been some fighting between Dr. Wortle and the world about his school.  He was,
as I have said, a thoroughly generous man, but he required, himself, to be treated with generosity.
Any question as to the charges made by him as schoolmaster was unendurable.  He explained to
all parents that he charged for each boy at the rate of two hundred a-year for board, lodging,
and tuition, and that anything required for a boy's benefit or comfort beyond that ordinarily
supplied would be charged for as an extra at such price as Dr. Wortle himself thought to be
an equivalent. Now the popularity of his establishment no doubt depended in a great degree
on the sufficiency and comfort of the good things of the world which he provided.  The beer
was of the best; the boys were not made to eat fat; their taste in the selection of joints
was consulted.  The morning coffee was excellent.  The cook was a great adept at cakes and
puddings.  The Doctor would not himself have been satisfied unless everything had been plentiful,
and everything of the best.  He would have hated a butcher who had attempted to seduce him
with meat beneath the usual price.  But when he had supplied that which was sufficient according
to his own liberal ideas, he did not give more without charging for it. Among his customers
there had been a certain Honourable Mr. Stantiloup, and,--which had been more important,--an
Honourable Mrs. Stantiloup.  Mrs. Stantiloup was a lady who liked all the best things which
the world could supply, but hardly liked paying the best price.  Dr. Wortle's school was the
best thing the world could supply of that kind, but then the price was certainly the very best.
Young Stantiloup was only eleven, and as there were boys at Bowick as old as seventeen,--for
the school had not altogether maintained its old character as being merely preparatory,--Mrs.
Stantiloup had thought that her boy should be admitted at a lower fee. The correspondence which
had ensued had been unpleasant.  Then young Stantiloup had had the influenza, and Mrs. Stantiloup
had sent her own doctor.  Champagne had been ordered, and carriage exercise.  Mr. Stantiloup
had been forced by his wife to refuse to pay sums demanded for these undoubted extras.  Ten
shillings a-day for a drive for a little boy seemed to her a great deal,--seemed so to Mrs.
Stantiloup.  Ought not the Doctor's wife to have been proud to take out her little boy in her
own carriage?  And then £2 10s. for champagne for the little boy!  It was monstrous.  Mr. Stantiloup
remonstrated.  Dr. Wortle said that the little boy had better be taken away and the bill paid
at once.  The little boy was taken away and the money was offered, short of £5.  The matter
was instantly put into the hands of the Doctor's lawyer, and a suit commenced. The Doctor,
of course, got his money, and then there followed an acrimonious correspondence in the "Times"
and other newspapers.  Mrs. Stantiloup did her best to ruin the school, and many very eloquent
passages were written not only by her or by her own special scribe, but by others who took
the matter up, to prove that two hundred a-year was a great deal more than ought to be paid
for the charge of a little boy during three quarters of the year.  But in the course of the
next twelve months Dr. Wortle was obliged to refuse admittance to a dozen eligible pupils because
he had not room for them.

No doubt he had suffered during these contests,--suffered, that is, in mind.  There had been
moments in which it seemed that the victory would be on the other side, that the forces congregated
against him were too many for him, and that not being able to bend he would have to be broken;
but in every case he had fought it out, and in every case he had conquered. He was now a prosperous
man, who had achieved his own way, and had made all those connected with him feel that it was
better to like him and obey him, than to dislike him and fight with him.  His curates troubled
him as little as possible with the grace of godliness, and threw off as far as they could that
zeal which is so dear to the youthful mind but which so often seems to be weak and flabby to
their elders.  His ushers or assistants in the school fell in with his views implicitly, and
were content to accept compensation in the shape of personal civilities.  It was much better
to go shares with the Doctor in a joke than to have to bear his hard words.

It is chiefly in reference to one of these ushers that our story has to be told.  But before
we commence it, we must say a few more words as to the Doctor and his family.  Of his wife
I have already spoken.  She was probably as happy a woman as you shall be likely to meet on
a summer's day.  She had good health, easy temper, pleasant friends, abundant means, and no
ambition.  She went nowhere without the Doctor, and whenever he went she enjoyed her share
of the respect which was always shown to him. She had little or nothing to do with the school,
the Doctor having many years ago resolved that though it became him as a man to work for his
bread, his wife should not be a slave.  When the battles had been going on,--those between
the Doctor and the bishops, and the Doctor and Mrs. Stantiloup, and the Doctor and the newspapers,--she
had for a while been unhappy.  It had grieved her to have it insinuated that her husband was
an atheist, and asserted that her husband was a cormorant; but his courage had sustained her,
and his continual victories had taught her to believe at last that he was indomitable.

They had one child, a daughter, Mary, of whom it was said in Bowick that she alone knew the
length of the Doctor's foot.  It certainly was so that, if Mrs. Wortle wished to have anything
done which was a trifle beyond her own influence, she employed Mary.  And if the boys collectively
wanted to carry a point, they would "collectively" obtain Miss Wortle's aid.  But all this
the Doctor probably knew very well; and though he was often pleased to grant favours thus asked,
he did so because he liked the granting of favours when they had been asked with a proper degree
of care and attention.  She was at the present time of the age in which fathers are apt to
look upon their children as still children, while other men regard them as being grown-up young
ladies.  It was now June, and in the approaching August she would be eighteen.  It was said
of her that of the girls all round she was the prettiest; and indeed it would be hard to find
a sweeter-favoured girl than Mary Wortle.  Her father had been all his life a man noted for
the manhood of his face.  He had a broad forehead, with bright grey eyes,--eyes that had always
a smile passing round them, though the smile would sometimes show that touch of irony which
a smile may contain rather than the good-humour which it is ordinarily supposed to indicate.
His nose was aquiline, not hooky like a true bird's-beak, but with that bend which seems to
give to the human face the clearest indication of individual will.  His mouth, for a man, was
perhaps a little too small, but was admirably formed, as had been the chin with a deep dimple
on it, which had now by the slow progress of many dinners become doubled in its folds.  His
hair had been chestnut, but dark in its hue. It had now become grey, but still with the shade
of the chestnut through it here and there.  He stood five feet ten in height, with small hands
and feet.  He was now perhaps somewhat stout, but was still as upright on his horse as ever,
and as well able to ride to hounds for a few fields when by chance the hunt came in the way
of Bowick.  Such was the Doctor.  Mrs. Wortle was a pretty little woman, now over forty years
of age, of whom it was said that in her day she had been the beauty of Windsor and those parts.
Mary Wortle took mostly after her father, being tall and comely, having especially her father's
eyes; but still they who had known Mrs. Wortle as a girl declared that Mary had inherited also
her mother's peculiar softness and complexion.

For many years past none of the pupils had been received within the parsonage,--unless when
received there as guests, which was of frequent occurrence.  All belonging to the school was
built outside the glebe land, as a quite separate establishment, with a door opening from the
parsonage garden to the school-yard.  Of this door the rule was that the Doctor and the gardener
should have the only two keys; but the rule may be said to have become quite obsolete, as the
door was never locked.  Sometimes the bigger boys would come through unasked,--perhaps in search
of a game of lawn-tennis with Miss Wortle, perhaps to ask some favour of Mrs. Wortle, who always
was delighted to welcome them, perhaps even to seek the Doctor himself, who never on such occasions
would ask how it came to pass that they were on that side of the wall.  Sometimes Mrs. Wortle
would send her housekeeper through for some of the little boys.  It would then be a good time
for the little boys.  But this would generally be during the Doctor's absence.

Here, on the school side of the wall, there was a separate establishment of servants, and a
separate kitchen.  There was no sending backwards or forwards of food or of clothes,--unless
it might be when some special delicacy was sent in if a boy were unwell.  For these no extra
charge was ever made, as had been done in the case of young Stantiloup.  Then a strange doctor
had come, and had ordered the wine and the carriage.  There was no extra charge for the kindly
glasses of wine which used to be administered in quite sufficient plenty.

Behind the school, and running down to the little river Pin, there is a spacious cricket-ground,
and a court marked out for lawn-tennis.  Up close to the school is a racket-court.  No doubt
a good deal was done to make the externals of the place alluring to those parents who love
to think that their boys shall be made happy at school.  Attached to the school, forming part
of the building, is a pleasant, well-built residence, with six or eight rooms, intended for
the senior or classical assistant-master. It had been the Doctor's scheme to find a married
gentleman to occupy this house, whose wife should receive a separate salary for looking after
the linen and acting as matron to the school,--doing what his wife did till he became successful,--while
the husband should be in orders and take part of the church duties as a second curate.  But
there had been a difficulty in this.

CHAPTER II.

THE NEW USHER.

THE Doctor had found it difficult to carry out the scheme described in the last chapter.  They
indeed who know anything of such matters will be inclined to call it Utopian, and to say that
one so wise in worldly matters as our schoolmaster should not have attempted to combine so
many things.  He wanted a gentleman, a schoolmaster, a curate, a matron, and a lady,--we may
say all in one.  Curates and ushers are generally unmarried. An assistant schoolmaster is not
often in orders, and sometimes is not a gentleman.  A gentleman, when he is married, does not
often wish to dispose of the services of his wife.  A lady, when she has a husband, has generally
sufficient duties of her own to employ her, without undertaking others.  The scheme, if realised,
would no doubt be excellent, but the difficulties were too many.  The Stantiloups, who lived
about twenty miles off, made fun of the Doctor and his project; and the Bishop was said to
have expressed himself as afraid that he would not be able to license as curate any one selected
as usher to the school.  One attempt was made after another in vain;--but at last it was declared
through the country far and wide that the Doctor had succeeded in this, as in every other enterprise
that he had attempted.  There had come a Rev. Mr. Peacocke and his wife.  Six years since,
Mr. Peacocke had been well known at Oxford as a Classic, and had become a Fellow of Trinity.
Then he had taken orders, and had some time afterwards married, giving up his Fellowship as
a matter of course.  Mr. Peacocke, while living at Oxford, had been well known to a large Oxford
circle, but he had suddenly disappeared from that world, and it had reached the ears of only
a few of his more intimate friends that he had undertaken the duties of vice-president of a
classical college at Saint Louis in the State of Missouri.  Such a disruption as this was for
a time complete; but after five years Mr. Peacocke appeared again at Oxford, with a beautiful
American wife, and the necessity of earning an income by his erudition.

It would at first have seemed very improbable that Dr. Wortle should have taken into his school
or into his parish a gentleman who had chosen the United States as a field for his classical
labours.  The Doctor, whose mind was by no means logical, was a thoroughgoing Tory of the old
school, and therefore considered himself bound to hate the name of a republic.  He hated rolling
stones, and Mr. Peacocke had certainly been a rolling stone. He loved Oxford with all his heart,
and some years since had been heard to say hard things of Mr. Peacocke, when that gentleman
deserted his college for the sake of establishing himself across the Atlantic.  But he was
one who thought that there should be a place of penitence allowed to those who had clearly
repented of their errors; and, moreover, when he heard that Mr. Peacocke was endeavouring to
establish himself in Oxford as a "coach" for undergraduates, and also that he was a married
man without any encumbrance in the way of family, there seemed to him to be an additional reason
for pardoning that American escapade.  Circumstances brought the two men together.  There were
friends at Oxford who knew how anxious the Doctor was to carry out that plan of his in reference
to an usher, a curate, and a matron, and here were the very things combined.  Mr. Peacocke's
scholarship and power of teaching were acknowledged; he was already in orders; and it was declared
that Mrs. Peacocke was undoubtedly a lady.  Many inquiries were made.  Many meetings took place.
Many difficulties arose.  But at last Mr. and Mrs. Peacocke came to Bowick, and took up their
abode in the school.

All the Doctor's requirements were not at once fulfilled.  Mrs. Peacocke's position was easily
settled.  Mrs. Peacocke, who seemed to be a woman possessed of sterling sense and great activity,
undertook her duties without difficulty.  But Mr. Peacocke would not at first consent to act
as curate in the parish.  He did, however, after a time perform a portion of the Sunday services.
When he first came to Bowick he had declared that he would undertake no clerical duty.  Education
was his profession, and to that he meant to devote himself exclusively.  Nor for the six or
eight months of his sojourn did he go back from this; so that the Doctor may be said even still
to have failed in carrying out his purpose.  But at last the new schoolmaster appeared in the
pulpit of the parish church and preached a sermon.

All that had passed in private conference between the Doctor and his assistant on the subject
need not here be related.  Mr. Peacocke's aversion to do more than attend regularly at the
church services as one of the parishioners had been very strong.  The Doctor's anxiety to overcome
his assistant's reasoning had also been strong.  There had no doubt been much said between
them.  Mr. Peacocke had been true to his principles, whatever those principles were, in regard
to his appointment as a curate,--but it came to pass that he for some months preached regularly
every Sunday in the parish church, to the full satisfaction of the parishioners.  For this
he had accepted no payment, much to the Doctor's dissatisfaction.  Nevertheless, it was certainly
the case that they who served the Doctor gratuitously never came by the worse of the bargain.

Mr. Peacocke was a small wiry man, anything but robust in appearance, but still capable of
great bodily exertion.  He was a great walker.  Labour in the school never seemed to fatigue
him.  The addition of a sermon to preach every week seemed to make no difference to his energies
in the school.  He was a constant reader, and could pass from one kind of mental work to another
without fatigue.  The Doctor was a noted scholar, but it soon became manifest to the Doctor
himself, and to the boys, that Mr. Peacocke was much deeper in scholarship than the Doctor.
Though he was a poor man, his own small classical library was supposed to be a repository of
all that was known about Latin and Greek.  In fact, Mr. Peacocke grew to be a marvel; but of
all the marvels about him, the thing most marvellous was the entire faith which the Doctor
placed in him.  Certain changes even were made in the old-established "curriculum" of tuition,--and
were made, as all the boys supposed, by the advice of Mr. Peacocke.  Mr. Peacocke was treated
with a personal respect which almost seemed to imply that the two men were equal.  This was
supposed by the boys to come from the fact that both the Doctor and the assistant had been
Fellows of their colleges at Oxford; but the parsons and other gentry around could see that
there was more in it than that.  Mr. Peacocke had some power about him which was potent over
the Doctor's spirit.

Mrs. Peacocke, in her line, succeeded almost as well.  She was a woman something over thirty
years of age when she first came to Bowick, in the very pride and bloom of woman's beauty.
Her complexion was dark and brown,--so much so, that it was impossible to describe her colour
generally by any other word.  But no clearer skin was ever given to a woman.  Her eyes were
brown, and her eye-brows black, and perfectly regular.  Her hair was dark and very glossy,
and always dressed as simply as the nature of a woman's head will allow.  Her features were
regular, but with a great show of strength.  She was tall for a woman, but without any of that
look of length under which female altitude sometimes suffers. She was strong and well made,
and apparently equal to any labour to which her position might subject her.  When she had been
at Bowick about three months, a boy's leg had been broken, and she had nursed him, not only
with assiduity, but with great capacity.  The boy was the youngest son of the Marchioness of
Altamont; and when Lady Altamont paid a second visit to Bowick, for the sake of taking her
boy home as soon as he was fit to be moved, her ladyship made a little mistake.  With the sweetest
and most caressing smile in the world, she offered Mrs. Peacocke a ten-pound note. "My dear
madam," said Mrs. Peacocke, without the slightest reserve or difficulty, "it is so natural
that you should do this, because you cannot of course understand my position; but it is altogether
out of the question."  The Marchioness blushed, and stammered, and begged a hundred pardons.
Being a good-natured woman, she told the whole story to Mrs. Wortle.  "I would just as soon
have offered the money to the Marchioness herself," said Mrs. Wortle, as she told it to her
husband.  "I would have done it a deal sooner," said the Doctor.  "I am not in the least afraid
of Lady Altamont; but I stand in awful dread of Mrs. Peacocke."  Nevertheless Mrs. Peacocke
had done her work by the little lord's bed-side, just as though she had been a paid nurse.

And so she felt herself to be.  Nor was she in the least ashamed of her position in that respect.
If there was aught of shame about her, as some people said, it certainly did not come from
the fact that she was in the receipt of a salary for the performance of certain prescribed
duties. Such remuneration was, she thought, as honourable as the Doctor's income; but to her
American intelligence, the acceptance of a present of money from a Marchioness would have been
a degradation.

It certainly was said of her by some persons that there must have been something in her former
life of which she was ashamed.  The Honourable Mrs. Stantiloup, to whom all the affairs of
Bowick had been of consequence since her husband had lost his lawsuit, and who had not only
heard much, but had inquired far and near about Mr. and Mrs. Peacocke, declared diligently
among her friends, with many nods and winks, that there was something "rotten in the state
of Denmark."  She did at first somewhat imprudently endeavour to spread a rumour abroad that
the Doctor had become enslaved by the lady's beauty.  But even those hostile to Bowick could
not accept this.  The Doctor certainly was not the man to put in jeopardy the respect of the
world and his own standing for the beauty of any woman; and, moreover, the Doctor, as we have
said before, was over fifty years of age.  But there soon came up another ground on which calumny
could found a story.  It was certainly the case that Mrs. Peacocke had never accepted any hospitality
from Mrs. Wortle or other ladies in the neighbourhood.  It reached the ears of Mrs. Stantiloup,
first, that the ladies had called upon each other, as ladies are wont to do who intend to cultivate
a mutual personal acquaintance, and then that Mrs. Wortle had asked Mrs. Peacocke to dinner.
But Mrs. Peacocke had refused not only that invitation, but subsequent invitations to the less
ceremonious form of tea-drinking.

All this had been true, and it had been true also,--though of this Mrs. Stantiloup had not
heard the particulars,--that Mrs. Peacocke had explained to her neighbour that she did not
intend to put herself on a visiting footing with any one.  "But why not, my dear?" Mrs. Wortle
had said, urged to the argument by precepts from her husband.  "Why should you make yourself
desolate here, when we shall be so glad to have you?"  "It is part of my life that it must
be so," Mrs. Peacocke had answered.  "I am quite sure that the duties I have undertaken are
becoming a lady; but I do not think that they are becoming to one who either gives or accepts
entertainments."

There had been something of the same kind between the Doctor and Mr. Peacocke.  "Why the mischief
shouldn't you and your wife come and eat a bit of mutton, and drink a glass of wine, over at
the Rectory, like any other decent people?"  I never believed that accusation against the Doctor
in regard to swearing; but he was no doubt addicted to expletives in conversation, and might
perhaps have indulged in a strong word or two, had he not been prevented by the sanctity of
his orders.  "Perhaps I ought to say," replied Mr. Peacocke, "because we are not like any other
decent people."  Then he went on to explain his meaning.  Decent people, he thought, in regard
to social intercourse, are those who are able to give and take with ease among each other.
He had fallen into a position in which neither he nor his wife could give anything, and from
which, though some might be willing to accept him, he would be accepted only, as it were, by
special favour.  "Bosh!" ejaculated the Doctor.  Mr. Peacocke simply smiled.  He said it might
be bosh, but that even were he inclined to relax his own views, his wife would certainly not
relax hers.  So it came to pass that although the Doctor and Mr. Peacocke were really intimate,
and that something of absolute friendship sprang up between the two ladies, when Mr. Peacocke
had already been more than twelve months in Bowick neither had he nor Mrs. Peacocke broken
bread in the Doctor's house.

And yet the friendship had become strong.  An incident had happened early in the year which
had served greatly to strengthen it.  At the school there was a little boy, just eleven years
old, the only son of a Lady De Lawle, who had in early years been a dear friend to Mrs. Wortle.
Lady De Lawle was the widow of a baronet, and the little boy was the heir to a large fortune.
The mother had been most loath to part with her treasure. Friends, uncles, and trustees had
declared that the old prescribed form of education for British aristocrats must be followed,--a
t'other school, namely, then Eton, and then Oxford.  No; his mother might not go with him,
first to one, and then to the other.  Such going and living with him would deprive his education
of all the real salt.  Therefore Bowick was chosen as the t'other school, because Mrs. Wortle
would be more like a mother to the poor desolate boy than any other lady.  So it was arranged,
and the "poor desolate boy" became the happiest of the young pickles whom it was Mrs. Wortle's
special province to spoil whenever she could get hold of them.

Now it happened that on one beautiful afternoon towards the end of April, Mrs. Wortle had taken
young De Lawle and another little boy with her over the foot-bridge which passed from the bottom
of the parsonage garden to the glebe-meadow which ran on the other side of a little river,
and with them had gone a great Newfoundland dog, who was on terms equally friendly with the
inmates of the Rectory and the school.  Where this bridge passed across the stream the gardens
and the field were on the same level.  But as the water ran down to the ground on which the
school-buildings had been erected, there arose a steep bank over a bend in the river, or, rather,
steep cliff; for, indeed, it was almost perpendicular, the force of the current as it turned
at this spot having washed away the bank.  In this way it had come to pass that there was a
precipitous fall of about a dozen feet from the top of the little cliff into the water, and
that the water here, as it eddied round the curve, was black and deep, so that the bigger boys
were wont to swim in it, arrangements for bathing having been made on the further or school
side.  There had sometimes been a question whether a rail should not be placed for protection
along the top of this cliff, but nothing of the kind had yet been done.  The boys were not
supposed to play in this field, which was on the other side of the river, and could only be
reached by the bridge through the parsonage garden.

On this day young De Lawle and his friend and the dog rushed up the hill before Mrs. Wortle,
and there began to romp, as was their custom.  Mary Wortle, who was one of the party, followed
them, enjoining the children to keep away from the cliff.  For a while they did so, but of
course returned.  Once or twice they were recalled and scolded, always asserting that the fault
was altogether with Neptune.  It was Neptune that knocked them down and always pushed them
towards the river.  Perhaps it was Neptune; but be that as it might, there came a moment very
terrible to them all.  The dog in one of his gyrations came violently against the little boy,
knocked him off his legs, and pushed him over the edge.  Mrs. Wortle, who had been making her
way slowly up the hill, saw the fall, heard the splash, and fell immediately to the ground.

Other eyes had also seen the accident.  The Doctor and Mr. Peacocke were at the moment walking
together in the playgrounds at the school side of the brook.  When the boy fell they had paused
in their walk, and were standing, the Doctor with his back to the stream, and the assistant
with his face turned towards the cliff.  A loud exclamation broke from his lips as he saw the
fall, but in a moment,--almost before the Doctor had realised the accident which had occurred,--he
was in the water, and two minutes afterwards young De Lawle, drenched indeed, frightened, and
out of breath, but in nowise seriously hurt, was out upon the bank; and Mr. Peacocke, drenched
also, but equally safe, was standing over him, while the Doctor on his knees was satisfying
himself that his little charge had received no fatal injury.  It need hardly be explained that
such a termination as this to such an accident had greatly increased the good feeling with
which Mr. Peacocke was regarded by all the inhabitants of the school and Rectory.

CHAPTER III.

THE MYSTERY.

MR. PEACOCKE himself said that in this matter a great deal of fuss was made about nothing.
Perhaps it was so.  He got a ducking, but, being a strong swimmer, probably suffered no real
danger.  The boy, rolling down three or four feet of bank, had then fallen down six or eight
feet into deep water.  He might, no doubt, have been much hurt.  He might have struck against
a rock and have been killed,--in which case Mr. Peacocke's prowess would have been of no avail.
But nothing of this kind happened. Little Jack De Lawle was put to bed in one of the Rectory
bed-rooms, and was comforted with sherry-negus and sweet jelly.  For two days he rejoiced thoroughly
in his accident, being freed from school, and subjected only to caresses.  After that he rebelled,
having become tired of his bed.  But by that time his mother had been most unnecessarily summoned.
Unless she was wanted to examine the forlorn condition of his clothes, there was nothing that
she could do.  But she came, and, of course, showered blessings on Mr. Peacocke's head,--while
Mrs. Wortle went through to the school and showered blessings on Mrs. Peacocke.  What would
they have done had the Peacockes not been there?

"You must let them have their way, whether for good or bad," the Doctor said, when his assistant
complained rather of the blessings,--pointing out at any rate their absurdity.  "One man is
damned for ever, because, in the conscientious exercise of his authority, he gives a little
boy a rap which happens to make a small temporary mark on his skin.  Another becomes a hero
because, when in the equally conscientious performance of a duty, he gives himself a ducking.
I won't think you a hero; but, of course, I consider myself very fortunate to have had beside
me a man younger than myself, and quick and ready at such an emergence.  Of course I feel grateful,
but I shan't bother you by telling you so."

But this was not the end of it.  Lady De Lawle declared that she could not be happy unless
Mr. and Mrs. Peacocke would bring Jack home for the holidays to De Lawle Park.  Of course she
carried her blessings up into Mrs. Peacocke's little drawing-room, and became quite convinced,
as was Mrs. Wortle, that Mrs. Peacocke was in all respects a lady.  She heard of Mr. Peacocke's
antecedents at Oxford, and expressed her opinion that they were charming people.  She could
not be happy unless they would promise to come to De Lawle Park for the holidays.  Then Mrs.
Peacocke had to explain that in her present circumstances she did not intend to visit anywhere.
She was very much flattered, and delighted to think that the dear little boy was none the worse
for his accident; but there must be an end of it. There was something in her manner, as she
said this, which almost overawed Lady De Lawle.  She made herself, at any rate, understood,
and no further attempt was made for the next six weeks to induce her or Mr. Peacocke to enter
the Rectory dining-room.  But a good deal was said about Mr. Peacocke,--generally in his favour.

Generally in his favour,--because he was a fine scholar, and could swim well.  His preaching
perhaps did something for him, but the swimming did more.  But though there was so much said
of good, there was something also of evil.  A man would not altogether refuse society for himself
and his wife unless there were some cause for him to do so.  He and she must have known themselves
to be unfit to associate with such persons as they would have met at De Lawle Park.  There
was a mystery, and the mystery, when unravelled, would no doubt prove to be very deleterious
to the character of the persons concerned.  Mrs. Stantiloup was quite sure that such must be
the case.  "It might be very well," said Mrs. Stantiloup, "for Dr. Wortle to obtain the services
of a well-educated usher for his school, but it became quite another thing when he put a man
up to preach in the church, of whose life, for five years, no one knew anything."  Somebody
had told her something as to the necessity of a bishop's authority for the appointment of a
curate; but no one had strictly defined to her what a curate is.  She was, however, quite ready
to declare that Mr. Peacocke had no business to preach in that pulpit, and that something very
disagreeable would come of it.

Nor was this feeling altogether confined to Mrs. Stantiloup, though it had perhaps originated
with what she had said among her own friends.  "Don't you think it well you should know something
of his life during these five years?"  This had been said to the Rector by the Bishop himself,--who
probably would have said nothing of the kind had not these reports reached his ears.  But reports,
when they reach a certain magnitude, and attain a certain importance, require to be noticed.

