   |               |
               |       |Precious metals     |               |
               |       | reserved, and      |               |
               |       | indigenous produce |               |
               |       | for public works.  |               |
               |       |                    |               |
Colonial Office|August,|12s. per acre.      |1842.          |
               | 1838. |                    |               |
               |       |                    |               |
               |1842.  |£1 per acre.        |1845.[184]     |
---------------+-------+--------------------+---------------+-----------

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 177: Report on the Disposal of Crown Land, 1836.]

[Footnote 178: England and America.]

[Footnote 179: The plan of selling crown lands, and appropriating the proceeds to emigration,
was claimed as his own by Galt, the novelist and projector. See Life of John Galt, vol. ii.
p. 135.]

[Footnote 180: Edinburgh Review, 1849.]

[Footnote 181: "We are much mistaken, if the letters addressed to the secretary exceed six,
and they are written by the paid magistracy."--Launceston Advertiser, 1832.]

[Footnote 182: Protesters:--Charles Swanston, Charles M'Lachlan, Richard Willis, John Kerr.
October, 1833.]

[Footnote 183: Backhouse's Narrative.]

[Footnote 184: 1845.--The Act 5th & 6th Victoria, chap. 36, repealed; as to Van Diemen's Land
only: which returned to the status of 1787.]

SECTION XIII.

The increasing population of the Australian colonies led to important changes in their monetary
institutions. Hitherto the stock employed in banking was supplied by the merchants, or invested
by East Indian capitalists. These local relations were not without their advantages: they enabled
the banks to extend accommodation beyond the ordinary usage of companies subject to more extensive
and complicated interests.

The announcement of the "Leviathan," as the Bank of Australasia was called, created the usual
amount of discussion. The capital was desired by those who had occasion to borrow, and dreaded
by such as were interested in lending. It was incorporated in 1835; and commenced operations
the following year. By granting bills on London at par, the manager first drew largely on the
current coin. Treasury bills were no longer the cheapest remittance, and the disposition to
purchase them declined. The outcry of the local banks reached the legislative council, and
it was proposed to make a treasury bill a legal tender. An act passed for the purpose, but
was never called into force by proclamation. The resources of the English enabled them to vex
and contract the sphere of the colonial establishments; but had treasury bills become a legal
tender, they could have redeemed their own notes by their payment, and thus recovered the coin
which found its way into the coffers of the stranger.

At Launceston, the quarrel between the Australasia and a local bank, afforded much sport to
those not deeply interested. Of the Tamar Bank, 20 per cent. only had been paid on its capital,
which was exceedingly small compared with its discounts and issues. Every morning, the agent
of the London took a wheel-barrow to the Tamar bank, attended by an armed guard, and carried
away the dollars in exchange for notes. The superior strength of the Australasia soon brought
the contest to a crisis, and Mr. Gilles, the manager of the Tamar, shut up his books. He, however,
first gave warning, that such must be his course, unless it was agreed to restore the dollar
bags to the state before the war. To this it was replied that, perhaps, the Tamar had exceeded
the just limits of its capital, and an offer made to discount a bill for its accommodation.
In the end, time was given. The parties concerned were more frightened than hurt: no serious
injury was intended.

In 1837, the Union Bank of Australia, with a capital of £1,000,000, divided the field. This
institution was formed in England, under the auspices of Mr. Philip Oakden, a merchant, of
Launceston. With such spirit was the project accepted, that the amount was subscribed in one day.

The chief objection to these banks was their tendency to create a class of absentees, whose
revenue withdrawn from the colonies would add nothing to their welfare. To this it was replied,
that the repayment was intended to be made from profits the colonies would divide with the
London capitalist, which, except for his assistance, could not be obtained.

The last business address of Arthur to his council, expressed his antipathy to the London bank,
and his hope that the monopoly attempted would not be successful. He asserted that the proprietary,
an absentee body, had no interest but their own to regard, while the local banks were colonial
in every sense. These were his views of finance, and they were characteristic of the time.

SECTION XIV.

"The glorious 23rd of May!" Such was the day and month of 1831, separated by those who witnessed
its achievements to everlasting renown. The excitement of the campaign against the blacks (see
vol. ii.) had absorbed political animosities, and brought all parties together; but by this
time the popularity of the governor was spent. The struggle for parliamentary reform agitated
Great Britain, and the colonists determined to attempt the recovery of their rights as Englishmen.
So lively was the interest in the affairs of Europe, that the tri-color was mounted by more
ardent politicians. The last wave of revolution, which had scattered thrones, rippled on these
shores.

A meeting was called by the sheriff, and the principal speakers were the Gellibrands, Crombie,
Cartwright, Abbott, F. Smith, Meredith, Lascelles, Gregson, Dunn, Jennings, Kemp, Hewitt, and
Lowes: of these, none were so conspicuous as Mr. Thomas Horne (a relative of the great Horne
Tooke), afterwards puisnè judge, and who was described as the "honest barrister" by the admiring
press. "If crushing," said the learned civilian, "is to be brought into operation, no doubt
I shall be crushed. Let them crush me, and they will associate my name with the record of this
meeting, which history will preserve to the latest period of time." The object of the movement
was to bring under the royal notice the government of the colony, and to demand trial by jury,
and a legislative assembly. The petition to the king was entrusted to the custody of Mr. Sams,
who was proceeding to Great Britain. Whether it ever reached the throne was a matter of dispute:
some said it had been committed to the deep, with much solemnity; others, that it had passed
from the messenger to the hands of a merchant, who disregarded its fate. It obtained no reply.

The colony had just reason to complain at the time. The supreme court had been closed for many
months: the business of the legislative council detained the judge and attorney-general from
their proper functions, and for nearly two years no gaol delivery had occurred at Launceston.
Two persons, father and son, charged with cattle-stealing, had been two years awaiting trial,
when they were both acquitted. The evidence against them was of the slightest description;
yet during their detention domestic calamities of all kinds had overtaken them.

The delay was still further extended by the issue of a new charter, and with the usual incaution
of the secretary of state. This charter arrived 1831: it nominated Mr. Pedder chief justice,
and Alexander Macduff Baxter, puisnè judge. It made no provision for continuing process begun
in the late court, and required colonial legislation to cure the defects of its details.

Mr. Baxter, the puisnè judge elect, had been attorney-general of New South Wales. His relations
with Darling had not been cordial, and he was disgraced in the eyes of the public by domestic
differences: his wife was insane, and he himself was intemperate. Just before he left Sydney
for Van Diemen's Land, he was bound over to keep the peace, and was declared insolvent. On
his arrival, the royal warrant for his induction had not reached the colony, and after some
delay he returned to New South Wales, and thence to Great Britain, where he died. Mr. Baxter
ascribed his ruin to his grant from the crown: he employed persons to look after his estate,
and they conducted him to beggary.[185]

The lieutenant-governor resolved, if possible, to exclude Baxter from an office which he could
only dishonor, and passed an act, pronounced by the lawyers a piece of "doubtful and dangerous"
legislation, by which the clause of the charter requiring two judges was expunged, thus constituting
the court of one. The act of parliament, however, authorised the measure: the council had power
to repeal or annul a patent, until the pleasure of the crown were known. The act was approved,
and remains among the laws. Occasions might occur, when the course of justice would be arrested
in a small community by requiring many officers to constitute a court.[186]

The reformers were not disheartened by their failure: they assembled again the following year,[187]
at the request of the Hornes, the Gellibrands, and the Gregsons. The effort was unavailing.
In 1834, it was renewed with still more earnestness: the former parties, reinforced by many
important accessions, maintained the popular cause. Repeated disappointments excited some bitterness,
which was expressed in strong terms.[188] Mr. Thomas Horne reminded the home government that
they would make "a dissatisfied and turbulent people, ready to use their power, and assert
their rights, if necessary, by force of arms." He advised the oblivion of minute grievances,
and said, "were the angel Gabriel to propose one measure, and Satan another, if he considered
Satan's the most politic, he should have the honor of adopting it."[189] But neither importunity
nor threatenings prevailed.

These efforts were renewed in the following year; but in 1835 some of the chief advocates of
a legislative assembly deprecated the penal institutions of the colony, and proposed that all
convicts, on their arrival, should be set free: of this plan, Mr. R. L. Murray was a distinguished
advocate.

A deputation from the meeting for free institutions, requested the intercession of the governor
with the crown; but he replied, that if the grant of free institutions, and the discontinuance
of penal coercion, were connected by one common advocacy, the interests of the colony, of the
crown, and of philanthropy, would demand the most serious precaution. He maintained that all
British rights were conceded, "excepting the elective franchise;" and quoted with more cleverness
than dignity, their statements of colonial opulence, to show how little they had suffered by
a former denial of their prayers.

Mr. Gellibrand, senior, was a person of intellectual tastes and lofty spirit. His early life
had been spent among liberal politicians: he was a zealous advocate of freedom, but still more
of knowledge and virtue.

Mr. Gellibrand, junior, was a lawyer of popular talents, whose practice as a barrister made
office of little importance, and who, when discarded by Arthur, opposed him with incessant
vigour. His eloquence was never exhausted, and his learning as a lawyer obtained him consideration
in the court, which his boldness as a pleader often threw into jeopardy. Mr. Thomas Horne exhibited
a fervour in the popular cause, worthy his kinsman. The rest were chiefly settlers, and patriots
from resentment or conviction.

These meetings preserved the principles of constitutional freedom; and if they did not hasten
its possession, reiterated its lessons and prepared for its enjoyment. Whatever temporary turmoil
the meetings created, they were conservative of great interests, and deserve a grateful remembrance.
These appeals to the British legislature were commonly accepted in silence: by the crown they
were graciously received and forgotten. They had no perceptible influence on colonial policy,
and only acquitted the settlers of indifference to rights, which can never be valued at too
high a price.

The surplus revenue, accruing from year to year, suggested to the secretary of state the imposition
of police, and gaol expenses on the colony. The non-official members of the council, except
one, voted against the appropriation. They denied that the supposed advantages conferred by
prisoner labor, justified a claim on the colonial funds for the support of a great national
object; and they added this remarkable passage:--"The influx of moral pollution has been perpetuated,
and the colony doomed for ever to be the gaol of Great Britain, and destined never to rise
to any rank among the British colonies."[190] A dim fore-shadowing of that universal sentiment
to which the constant attempts to lessen the profits of prisoner labor gave rise. The revenue
was largely dependent on the consumption of liquors, and upon habits which generate crime and
impose expenses on the public. It received an appropriate destination: funds contributed chiefly
by drunkards for the repression of criminals. Such was the apology for exactions enormous,
when compared with the population; a view not easily impugned, except that in such cases the
interest of the government ceases to be hostile to vices which increase its wealth.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 185: Letter to Darling, 1830.

Major Mudie says--"Being scarcely ever sober, he left his business to be done by a convict
clerk, who had been a lawyer of some sort previous to his transportation from England."--p. 245.]

[Footnote 186: 9th Geo. iv. sec. 22.]

[Footnote 187: August 13, 1832.]

[Footnote 188: Captain Glover stated, that the events of the 23rd of May had been dramatised
in the following strain:--The ambassador of that meeting was admitted to the king: "Ho, ho,
Mr. Ambassador," said the king, "the people of Van Diemen's Land want an assembly, do they;
what do they want it for?" The posed ambassador replies, "Because they do, your Majesty." "Because
they do, Mr. Ambassador, is that the reason they gave?" "Please your Majesty, I am not certain
they gave that reason." "What do you think of that, Goderich?" says the king. "Oh, all nonsense,"
said Goderich. The ambassador, on retiring, requested an answer, and was informed, "there was
none." The ambassador, in his turn, asked the reason. "Why because we wont--that's all."]

[Footnote 189: From the Tasmanian report of meeting.]

SECTION XV.

The case of Mr. William Bryan was before the public for many years. Mr. Bryan was an enterprising
settler, and owned 11,000 acres and extensive herds, and was engaged in many speculations of
public utility. He erected a valuable mill, and under his auspices a company was formed, which
purchased a steam vessel. She was brought to the colony by Captain Alexander Wales: when, however,
he arrived, the project was defeated by the altered position of Mr. Bryan's affairs.

Samuel Arnold, a herdsman of Mr. Bryan, was convicted of cattle-stealing (1833), and sentenced
to death. The police magistrate, Mr. Lyttleton, who committed him for trial, alleged against
his master a culpable incaution, and Judge Montagu uttered a severe censure from the bench
on the same account. Mr. Lyttleton, on going outside the court, addressed several gentlemen,
of whom Mr. Dry was one. He remarked, that though the man was sentenced to die, he would do
his utmost to save his life; and added, that another person ought to be standing in his stead.
This was supposed to refer to Mr. Bryan, who deputed a young friend, Mr. Lewis, to demand an
explanation, or appoint a meeting. Not only did Lyttleton decline this, but he transmitted
an account to the government, and the attorney-general prosecuted Lewis for endeavouring to
provoke a duel.

Mr. Bryan now appealed to the public, and tendered his resignation as a magistrate: he complained
that he had been calumniated, and satisfaction refused. Arthur rejected his resignation, and
dismissed him from the commission of the peace; and instantly recalled his assigned servants,
twenty-two in number. Thus deprived of laborers, in the midst of harvest, his crops rotted
on the ground; and his stock neglected, became diseased and were scattered. He was indebted
to the sympathy of his neighbours, and to the extent of his wealth, that his property was not
destroyed, and his credit wholly subverted. The effects of this measure were disastrous, and
excited general distrust.

Bryan ascribed his treatment to an early difference with Arthur. The land he obtained on his
arrival was less than he claimed, and he appealed successfully to the secretary of state; but
he was told by a friend of the governor, that this was an offence not to be pardoned: no man
could appeal against Arthur with final impunity.

Mr. Bryan was not altogether a martyr. He received upon the whole 4,000 acres of land; and
in a letter to Arthur, he wrote:--"Permit me to return you my sincere thanks (as much for the
manner as the matter) of your very kind letter of the 11th instant. To the same principle of
impartiality which you have evinced in my cause, I leave the increase of my grant, resting
quite satisfied that if my exertions deserve it they will be rewarded."[191] Mr. Bryan had
then received 1,500 acres; he afterwards received 2,500.

Mr. Bryan instituted an action against Mr. Hortle, the agent of government in the recall of
his servants. The issue depended greatly on the manner of trial--whether by assessors, or a
jury of twelve. The court possessed a discretion. The law officers asserted, and the judges
allowed, that the colonists were disqualified by common interest to form an impartial judgment,
and a jury was refused. Bryan then dropped the action, which he objected to entrust to assessors,
directed perhaps by a member of the executive: for the same reason he withdrew his proceedings
against the police magistrate for defamation of character. He returned to England: sought redress
from the ministers, but in vain. On this case the opinion of impartial persons can hardly err.
Yet the right of the governor to withdraw men, though not to be exercised in a wanton and destructive
manner, was hardly to be disputed. The opinion of the English law officers of the crown favored
that view, although it would be dangerous to take their version as decisive. "We," say they,
"are clearly of opinion, that under the 9th section of 9th Geo. iv. c. 83, governors can revoke
assignment of a convict, of whose sentence it is not intended to grant any remission; and we
think there is nothing against the apparent policy of the act which militates against that
construction."

For carrying a challenge to Mr. Lyttleton, Lewis was put on his trial. The conventional turpitude
of the offence wholly depended on the provocation. A magistrate could not be covered by his
privilege when standing in the street, and announcing his opinions to the loungers there; but
Lyttleton, himself the sole witness, denied the words imputed, and his cross-examination was
impeded by the court. Lewis read a written defence, and reproached the attorney-general with
prosecuting an offence recently committed by himself: for this the accused was fined £10 by
the judge, who advised him to retire and revise his notes. On resuming his speech, he was again
stopped and fined. Complaining that the course required by his defence was unjustly obstructed,
he became silent. A military jury found him guilty; and the judge condemned him to pay £150,
and suffer an imprisonment of eighteen months.

The aspersion of the character of a magistrate by an imputation so serious, was the sole alleged
justification of the challenge. The words attributed to the police magistrate, Lyttleton, he
had denied; but, on his return home, became convinced by the testimony of Mr. Dry, sen., that
he had sworn falsely. He communicated this impression to the attorney-general, but without result.

The conduct of Judge Montagu, on the trial of Lewis, was represented as harsh and captious;
but was explained by subsequent disclosures. A clever barrister, who secretly advised the accused
and framed his defence, went into the judge's room, before the sitting of the court, and in
conversing with Montagu intimated the very improper course Lewis intended to take. Montagu
replied, he would certainly fine him. It was under these suspicions, that he began the trial:
he was thrown off his guard, and the prosecution involved in an irreparable mistake. When the
court sat to sentence the accused, the lawyer was there to urge the illegality of the conviction.

Lewis complained to the secretary of state, who referred his case to the law officers of the
crown, who asserted "that it is an unwarrantable proceeding, on the part of a judge, to fine
an accused party for saying anything which he may consider essential to his defence, provided
it shall be consistent with public decorum." The secretary of state directed compensation:
this, a board estimated at £1,700. The governor was, however, desirous of depriving Lewis of
the indemnity, and the legislative council resolved, seven to four, that the observations of
Mr. Lewis were not within that qualification; and requested that, if the secretary of state
persevered in his determination, he should pay the complainant from the land fund. Such resistance
was obviously official, and without moral weight, and the money was eventually paid.

Several months after the departure of Mr. William Bryan for Great Britain, his nephew, Mr.
Robert Bryan, and another, were charged with cattle-stealing. The constables who professed
to watch the prisoners, alleged that they saw the animal in question driven homeward by the
accused, and on the second day following discovered the skin thrown into the scrub. Witnesses
contradicted the constables, who were all prisoners of the crown, in some material points.
The young man was sentenced to death. The capital penalty was not inflicted; but it was the
popular notion that he was the victim of a conspiracy.

The young man, Robert Bryan, was tried on two separate indictments, and such was the evidence,
that many unprejudiced persons concurred in the verdict: yet the witnesses against him were
open to suspicion. It was commonly asserted that he was sacrificed; if not by the contrivance,
with the concurrence of the government.

The trial was reported by the Colonial Times. The editor, Mr Henry Melville, pointed out in
strong language the suspicion of unfairness; the dependence of the jury; the presence of the
governor at Launceston during the trial; the infamous character of certain of the witnesses;
and the overruling a challenge of a juror by the prisoner. The remarks of Melville were carried
beyond the tolerated bounds of public criticism; the attorney-general, Stephen, induced the
court to issue an attachment. The defendant was required to admit the authorship: this being
done, the judge whose conduct he had censured pronounced the sentence.[192] To judge, condemn,
and imprison, at once and by the party offended, included all that tyranny could ask. Any reference
to the proceedings of a court, which the judge might choose to pronounce a libel, might consign
to perpetual imprisonment. A similar case, at Newfoundland, was discussed in the House of Commons,
and the ministers joined the opposition in severely reprehending the practice. The papers published
the debate, and Arthur slowly obeyed the signal, and gave Melville his liberty.

Motions for attachment have not often disgraced the administration of justice: they are relics
of barbarous times. This process was issued against Fawkner, the editor of the Launceston Advertiser,
who escaped by an apology; and it was moved for by the attorney-general, Stephen, against Murray
and Melville, for calling an affidavit of the solicitor-general--to the effect that a fair
trial could not be obtained in Bryan's case with a colonial jury--"an extraordinary document!"
The judges dismissed the application, when Stephen remarked, that he "thanked God he despised
the observations, as well as the scoundrel-like motives which influenced them."

The intermixture of cattle of various owners, in the extensive forests belonging to the crown
in the northern districts, afforded opportunities for plunder, and frequently occasioned disputes
and quarrels. The herdsmen were often careless and dishonest, and their masters were liable
to share the reproach of their mistakes or guilt. The marks distinguishing such property easily
escaped the memory: it was often left to the choice of the magistrate to commit for felony,
or resign the dispute to a civil tribunal.

The constabulary were mostly prisoners of the crown. Their office entitled them to an earlier
attainment of their liberty than other convicts: the detection of a serious crime gave them
claims for a still quicker liberation; and the desire of freedom prompted them to lay snares
for persons suspected, and even to commit a crime that they might charge it on the innocent.
Thus, they would sometimes slaughter a branded beast, and throw its skin on the premises of
the selected victim. Such atrocious wickedness was certainly not common, but that it sometimes
occurred is beyond all doubt.

Captain Serjeantson, of the 40th regiment, a gentleman connected with several opulent settlers,
was murdered (1835). The family collected £500: to this the governor added £100 more, for the
discovery of the murderer, who was found to be Hunt, a bushranger, afterwards shot by a small
settler, and who dying confessed the crime. In this case, a constable, Drinkwater, proposed
to another to earn their free pardons. The plan sketched was to deposit shot in the hut of
a man at Campbell Town, who was suspected, resembling that extracted from the body of the deceased.
A constable, invited as an accomplice, betrayed the project; not, however, until the proof
of its existence was indisputable. The same constable had proposed to throw a sheep stolen
from the flocks of Mr. Willis, on the premises of a man, "on whom there was a down."

The intentional encouragement of perjury cannot be imputed to the government; but necessity
induced a most perilous laxity of feeling. Thus on a trial, the judge not only stopped the
case, but committed the prisoner policemen for perjury: these persons were discharged by the
attorney-general, and established again as constables. Their oaths had already produced several
capital convictions, and they became qualified to accuse and convict the most upright men.
The ignorant police agents considered that the successful prosecution of any person, regarded
by their officers with hatred, would entitle them to benefits; and even the prisoners in service
discriminated between those whom they might accuse with impunity, and such as were protected
by their connections. Nor was this all: in the height of political excitement, a prisoner was
arrested in the neighbourhood of Mr. Gregson's dwelling, who avowed his intention to assassinate
that gentleman, in the expectation of a reward.

The affair of Mr. Bryan increased the anxiety of the colony to obtain trial by jury, independent
of the court and the influence of the executive. By the custom of England, this privilege could
only be suspended by martial law, when the ordinary courts were closed: wherever the authority
of the crown was recognised, the accused was entitled to trial by his peers. Nothing could
be more alien from the habits of Englishmen, than to lodge the functions of grand jury in the
hands of an officer of the crown, or commit life or liberty to the verdict of a military jury.
A paramount necessity required the practice for a time; but a change was delayed, by the hesitation
of the government, long after the colonies contained a body of freemen.

The decision of Judge Forbes, instanced in a former page, which determined that the common
law right remained with the session of magistrates, had been acted on for a time. Emancipists
sat on these juries, and exulted in the privilege. Their press, in publishing the list, distinguished
the members of their body by affixing stars (*) to their names. The act of parliament (1828)
set aside the interpretation of the judge; but when it took away the common law right, it gave
power to the crown to authorise the institution of juries, at the discretion of colonial legislatures.
Thus an ordinance entitling to trial by jury in civil cases, was established in New South Wales
(1829). The chief justice strongly favored the eligibility of emancipists, who were three times
more numerous than the immigrant population. The non-official members of the council were generally
opposed to their admission; but the measure was carried by ten against five. Thus, although
the trial of criminal causes still remained with the military, the courts could not withdraw
civil wrongs from the verdict of civilians. By this act the officers of government were liable
to some responsibility, and in several instances were cast in damages, notwithstanding the
efforts of the crown to defend them.

While civil jurors were confined to civil issues, they sat in the box occupied at other times
by the military jury. An officer had amused his leisure, while sitting on a trial, by tracing
caricatures of the civil jurors, and writing libels on the benches. Thus insulted, they appealed
to the court for protection. The judge was unwilling to interfere; but being pressed, remarked,
that were the authorship traced to a military juror, he would close his court rather than intrust
to such hands the administration of justice (1830).

The hostility of the opulent emigrants to the eligibility of emancipists was intense and lasting.
This was still more active when the trial of criminal issues passed into their hands (1833).
They asserted that the criminal at the bar was too literally tried by his peers, and that scenes
disgraceful to public justice were enacted in the retiring room. It required all the authority
of the court to repress antipathies so openly avowed. The rancour excited by this question
is scarcely credible: a gentleman addressed the judge from the box before he was sworn, and
asked if he was expected to deliver a verdict with twice convicted felons? Appearances of partiality
and corruption were quoted to prove the pernicious effect of their admission. The magistrates,
usually hostile to the measure, returned as fit and proper persons, those whom they knew would
disgrace the box. Some flagrant cases were exhibited as specimens of the whole: a juror, out
on bail for horse-stealing, resolutely acquitted another charged with cattle-stealing, and
was convicted himself. Thus, it was said, returns to the summons of jurors, in one instance,
was "hanged;" in another, "transported for life."

These were certainly blemishes, but they were magnified into radical and incurable defects
(1835). The complaints of the gentry, induced Governor Bourke to take the opinion of the judges
and the law officers of the crown: on the whole, they were fully satisfied with the result
of the law. It was remarked by a judge, that the accused would sometimes choose a military
jury, or a jury of twelve, according to the nature of the offence: in cases of aggravated violence
they often preferred a military jury, but where conflicting testimony was likely to occur,
they preferred the greater number, only as less likely to agree. Forbes stated that the chief
difficulty was confining the juries to the question of fact; but their verdicts had generally
satisfied him. It was the opinion of the judges, save Mr. Justice Burton, that trial by jury
had been too long deferred, and that benefit would result from its unqualified adoption.[193]

In Van Diemen's Land, an ordinance was passed (1830), permitting the judge to allow a jury
in civil cases, whenever it was desired by either party. The names were twenty-four: from these
both parties struck out six, and the remaining twelve were the jury. The first trial occurred
1830 (Butler v. Bent), in an action for libel, contained in a series of letters written, or
acknowledged, by Wells, an emancipist, and signed "Simon Stukely." They were afterwards collected
into a volume. The chief persons in the colony were described with considerable spirit, but
with the usual injustice of anonymous satire.[194]

The danger to the fortunes of the people was more severely felt than the peril of their liberty
and lives. Thus a public meeting, demanding trial by jury, was held in 1834: an address was
presented to Arthur by a deputation. In urging the amendment of the law, they referred to the
extraordinary powers possessed by the government. Arthur, in reply, professed a liberal desire
to gratify their wishes; but denied that he possessed extraordinary powers, or that "they required
to be watched with more than usual jealously." He had, however, deferred the establishment
of British laws to the last possible moment, and certainly possessed great powers; on the whole,
more capable of perversion than any ever known in a British colony.

The attorney-general, Alfred Stephen, was desirous of substituting for the assessors a jury
of seven, instead of twelve. His project was opposed by Mr. Kemp, and indeed very generally
disapproved. It was argued, that the chances of influence multiply as the number of jurors
are decreased, and that the national practice was the only safe guide. The amount of discussion
that attended the dispute was prodigious: pamphlets, and letters without end. The prejudice
of the people was, however, on the right side: although there is nothing sacred in an ancient
number, the retrenchment must have increased the facility of corruption. The law, as it ultimately
passed, removed the danger, by giving either party a right to demand a jury; and to the party
against whom the application was made, a choice between a petty and special jury; but three-fourths
were taken as the whole, after six hours deliberation.

This act was framed in virtue of an order of council by the king in 1830. It provided that
in criminal prosecutions where the governor, or any inferior officer, civil or military, could
be interested in the result of a trial, a jury taken from the special jury list should try
the issue.[195]

To Arthur the colonists were not indebted: the secretary of state had, long before, announced
the determination of the government in favour of the measure. It was not carried out until
nearly four years after its authorisation. The removal from the colony of the stigma of military
juries, was delayed until 1840, when the trial of crimes and misdemeanours was entrusted to
the hands of the inhabitants, and the grand bulwark of public and private freedom raised in
Tasmania.

The convictions for perjury were not numerous: the whole system partook of the unsoundness
of its elements, and the inhabitants were indebted for their safety to those principles of
humanity, which, in the absence of interest and passion, regulated the measures of the government,
and restrained its agents from atrocious conspiracies.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 190: Signed by C. Swanston, T. Anstey, J. Kerr, C. M'Lachlan, R. Willis, W. A. Bethune.]

[Footnote 191: Letter produced by Mr. Kelsy, of the Colonial office.]

[Footnote 192: Twelve months imprisonment, £200 fine, and sureties in £500 for two years.]

[Footnote 193: Par. Pap. 1837.

6th Geo. iv. c. 5, disqualified a person to serve convicted of any capital offence, except
free pardoned.

7th & 8th Geo. iv. c. 28. sec. 13, gave to a conditional pardon under the sign manual the same
effect as great seal.

In cases not capital, service had the effect of free pardon: 9th Geo. iv. c. 32. sec. 3.

All the laws of England were adopted by the Act of 1828: thus the disqualification for jurors,
in cases capital, was taken away.

Judge Forbes stated, that in civil issues the juries had some difficulty in comprehending the
distinction between law and fact: ad questionem facti respondent juratores, ad questionem legis
judices.]

[Footnote 194: The original Simon Stukely was a quaker, who went to Turkey with an intention
of converting the Grand Turk: he narrowly escaped decapitation, by the interposition of the
English ambassador. He was afterwards confined in an asylum: in answer to inquiries how he
came there, he replied--"I said the world was mad, and the world said I was mad; and they out-voted
me."]

[Footnote 195: Passed, 5th November, 1834.]

SECTION XVI.

The True Colonist newspaper was published daily during 1835: the editor, Mr. Gilbert Robertson,
filled its columns with strictures on government, and in a style which might be termed heroic,
if inspired by truth. The rashness of his imputations was never surpassed. He heaped on the
governor, and the members of his administration, charges of misdemeanour and felony. One day
he denounced them at the police-office, and the next printed his accusations verbatim. He libelled
the governor (whom he accused of altering a deed after its enrolment) in a paper, headed "a
fearful discovery;" and declared him not less deserving than others of a capital conviction.
Robertson charged an overseer of Arthur with feloniously receiving hay for the governor's use,
and with his connivance. His nephews, Captains Forster and Montagu, were each accused of a
felonious appropriation of property belonging to the crown. For these imputations, Robertson
suffered fine and imprisonment;[196] in part remitted by the clemency of Arthur. Such charges
were a buckler to the governor against the current scandal of the time. They were transmitted
to the colonial-office: they destroyed the moral weight of the press, and cast suspicion on
just complaints, yet emanating from a community which tolerated such extravagance.

It is not to be inferred that the opponents of Arthur's government, generally sanctioned these
excesses. The violence of periodical writings resulted partly from the paucity of topics, and
was mainly a necessity of trade. The limited field of discussion huddled all disputes into
a squabble. The writers could not forget the names of their antagonists: they espoused with
vehement zeal the trivial quarrels of this or that functionary; officers, who were dismissed,
supplied anecdotes of those left behind, which were worked up in every form. The want of ideas
and information would have withdrawn many writers from the combat, had they not possessed CAPITALS,
exclamations (!!!!), and dashes--officered by epithets of horror, as an army of reserve. These
attempts to impart energy to weakness, and terror to insignificance, gave to the articles of
many old newspapers the aspect of auction bills, rather than political disquisitions.

The reader of a better era may fancy this description shaded; but the writer, in preparing
this work, has explored many a volume, and shudders at the memory of his toils: he would not
assign them to his worst enemy. Such were not all: there were writers on either side, whose
opposition was discriminating, and who enlightened the understanding without debasing the taste.
The press was the more licentious, because nothing else was free; but it raised a barrier against
official corruption. Men of integrity were annoyed, but rarely injured. It intimidated the
corrupt, and protected the oppressed. Considered in detail it was often detestable; but it
prevented mischief more serious and lasting.

These contentions embittered colonial life: they were daily renewed. The topics they embraced
were rarely interesting beyond the moment: they filled the ephemeral publications of the day,
and they now lie entombed in those repositories of the literary dead.

From 1831 to the termination of Arthur's government, the circulation of newspapers prodigiously
increased: the improvement of the postal establishment facilitated their spread. Settlers,
who delighted in their controversies, or dreaded their censure, subscribed to them all. With
a few honorable exceptions they rivalled each other in recklessness of statement and roughness
of diction. No lover of truth will accept their testimony, or transmit their praises. They
were often what they were denominated by the chief justice--"a moral guillotine."

The spirit of contention was promoted by the peculiar fabric of society. The great majority
of the colonists were below the period of human life, when the temper becomes cautious and
the passions calm. Its narrow sphere magnified their temporary importance. Every man might
claim, or forfeit benefits the government could bestow, and thus multitudes had personal grievances,
or unsatisfied expectations. The hostilities of the day were almost invariably associated with
some sense of individual wrong. A grant of land desired by one, was given to another; a valuable
servant was denied on some public pretence, and then assigned to a favored applicant. One found
his mercantile tenders always rejected, while another, by some unintelligible process, engrossed
the custom of the crown. A youthful stranger was invested with the honors of a justice, when
colonists of long standing were left undistinguished. The infractions of rule involved one
master in public disgrace; another, was a licensed transgressor. Such was the complaint, which
might be easily illustrated by examples; but they are such as a knowledge of mankind will amply
explain, and are inevitable when the form of government is arbitrary, and where its functions
enter into all the details of private life.

This was felt towards the close of Arthur's administration, and many, not prone to party strife,
were anxious for its termination. The meetings to petition were more frequent, and assumed
a more general character. As the causes of dissension became better understood, the patronage
of the governor ceased to be considerable, and no colonist was a lover of unprofitable despotism.
These sentiments prevailed in both penal colonies.

A "political association" was formed in Van Diemen's Land: a standing council was organised,
under the auspices of certain leading politicians, who discussed the measures deemed necessary
to amend their social and political condition. Mr. Thomas Horne, the secretary of this body,
opened a correspondence with the governor, and endeavoured to direct his attention to its complaints.
Arthur declined recognising his credentials, without an express sanction from the crown. The
association, however, carried on its debates. The council deliberated in public: the members
were assembled in the body of the hall, and spectators were admitted to the gallery. Their
proceedings were reported in the newspapers, but with party coloring. By Dr. Ross they were
turned into bitter ridicule: his remarks were retorted with cruelty and insult. A storm collected
around him he could not disperse, and he laid down his pen soon after, with expressions of
ill-concealed anguish.[197]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 196: "I charge Mr. Fitzpatrick, late overseer of the government farm, with stealing
or embezzling a quantity of hay, the property of the crown; and one John Compton, the overseer
of Colonel Arthur's farm at the Marsh, with receiving the hay. I also charge Mr. Davidson,
late superintendent of the government garden, with embezzling, and Captain Forster with receiving,
four Norfolk Island pines, value £20, the property of the crown. I have another distinct charge
against Captain Forster, and one against Captain Montagu, for stealing or receiving certain
building materials, the property of the crown."--True Colonist, Feb 26, 1835.]

SECTION XVII.

The recall of Arthur, long anticipated by his enemies, at length arrived. Some months before,
he had been informed by the secretary of state, that "having continued him in his government
for the unusual period of twelve years, the crown intended to name his successor." On the recommendation
of Mr. Huskisson, the duration of an ordinary government was limited to six years: special
reasons withdrew Van Diemen's Land from the operation of this rule.

The ministerial changes at the seat of empire left Arthur's influence unimpaired. The variations
of national policy rarely reached his sphere. Unwelcome orders he managed to modify or evade.
The difficult nature of his duties, the distance of his government from supervision, and the
weakness of the free population, enabled him to assume and maintain for many years a discretion
all but unlimited. The state of the colony on his arrival has been already noticed. The measures
he adopted to coerce and control the convict population, and to subdue the aborigines, will
be found in the second volume of this History. He repressed the outrages of the lawless, and
restored comparative tranquillity. Under his auspices the chief town, which he found consisting
of a few frail dwellings, assumed the aspect of a commercial city. Many, he received in chains,
were established in social happiness: many immigrants, who arrived with slender resources,
had risen to opulence.

A series of forty-seven statistical tables, prepared by the colonial secretary, his nephew,
exhibit a progress then almost unexampled. In 1836, the revenue had increased from £16,866
to £106,639; the imports from £62,000 to £583,646; the exports from £14,500 to £320,679; mills
from 5 to 47; colonial vessels from 1 to 71; churches from 4 to 18: the population had risen
from 12,000 to 40,000; and every branch of public and private enterprise exhibited the same
general aspect.

It would be absurd to ascribe to Arthur even the main credit of these results: they were the
effect of that spirit of industry which ever characterises the native of Great Britain, and
which nothing can wholly extinguish. Nor was this prosperity without alloy. The unproductive
improvement encouraged, was sometimes unhealthy. The settlers were deeply involved: the valuation
of property was raised beyond reasonable calculation. The pleasing delusion was cherished by
the members of the government, whose official and private interests concurred to dupe them.
Happy were they who sold. Arthur left many who, acquiring his favour by the extent of their
outlay, and the vigour of their enterprise, were laden with debts from which they never recovered,
and a prey to perpetual solicitude.

The great demand for sheep and cattle, created by the establishment of new colonies, gave a
temporary respite: flocks were sold at £2 per head, and were purchased in large quantities.
These ameliorations were only transient, and the wide regions open to adventure lessened the
worth of those properties which had been valued by the farms of Great Britain, not the unpeopled
wilds of New Holland.

A just estimate of Arthur's administration, must include all the peculiarities of his position,
and the complicated interests he held in trust, whether they relate to the imperial government,
the free, or the bond. The measures best for the colony were not always compatible with the
design of its establishment. Nor must we forget that, in surveying the past we have lights
which rarely attend the present; that much which experience may amend, it is not possible for
wisdom to foresee.

The primary object of the crown in colonising this island, was accepted by this governor as
the chief aim of his policy. The settlement of free men he considered but subsidiary to the
control and reform of the transported offender: their claims, their duties, and their political
rights were, in his view, determined by their peculiar position. They were auxiliaries hired
by royal bounties, to co-operate with the great machinery of punishment and reformation. As
the representative of the crown, he stood off from the colonists in their sympathies and ultimate
views. Employed not to build up a free community of Englishmen, but to hold in check the criminality
of an empire, with him the settlement was an institution requisite to the effective execution
of penal laws. Such he found it: such he desired to mould its growth, and to prolong its destination.
Thus, except in the capacity of employers, he regretted the arrival of free men, and warned
the ministers of the crown, that by their encouragement of emigration, they were destroying
the value of bond labor, the dependence of the settlers, and the adaptation of the island for
the purposes of a prison.

Thus, in his official correspondence with colonists on subjects of a political nature, Arthur
always avowed hostility to liberal ideas, and scoffed at their solicitude for the common rights
of English people. While the opposition could avail, he resisted the liberty of the press,
trial by jury, and open discussion of legislative measures. His remarks were often in a tone
austere and reproving; nor did he think himself obliged to preserve that dignified complaisance
which softens the differences of political life. The settlers were expected to stay at home,
to keep their servants in custody, to denounce their infractions of penal rule, and as the
"materials of prison discipline," (so they were denominated) to carry out a judicial sentence.
They knew, before they came, they must sacrifice British rights, and with the political or
social influence of transportation, beyond their own fences, they had no concern.

As an officer of the army, the profession of Arthur was not unfavorable to the main purpose
he avowed: the process he conducted was, of necessity, harsh and imperative. In the selection
of instruments, he preferred military men: they were without colonial scruples, and when the
government was unconcerned, perhaps, without partiality. They were deficient in legal knowledge,
and as magistrates sometimes overlooked the material facts; but they despised the reproaches
of the press, and the censures of civilians.

In the course of his administration, Arthur had most places at his temporary disposal: he filled
them, wherever possible, with his friends; and he left his nephews in the highest appointments
within their professional capacity. Arthur drew out a minute detail of official subordination:
the duties prescribed for his officers were defined with labored exactness, and the reins of
control met in his hands. Everything was referred to himself, and his instructions were definite,
and generally irrevocable. Many persons appointed by the crown were dismissed, or thrown off,
by his contrivance. Accident placed many offices in his provisional gift. Baxter, a judge elect;
Gellibrand, an attorney-general; Ferreday, a sheriff; Thomas, a treasurer; Burnett, a colonial
secretary; O'Ferrall, a collector of customs; and many in lower station, relinquished or lost
their appointments, by the determination of his inflexible and unflinching will. The forfeiture
was sometimes obviously just; but it was a maxim of his government to fill the departments
with persons who knew no patronage except his own. Among them were candidates for the same
gifts, who looked for fortunes beyond the limits of their duties: they cultivated farms; became
competitors for prisoner labor; and speculators in commerce. The supreme court and the newspapers
were often occupied by their recriminations: sometimes they exchanged challenges, and sometimes
writs. The colonists in opposition saw, not without some gratification, dissensions which seemed
to weaken the common enemy; and the press was often enriched by the malice of official pens.
Many were, however, too wise to quarrel: their quiet industry enabled them to combine their
public and private employments, without scandal, and with success. They were, indeed, accused
of peculation; but specific charges were generally rebutted, and can now only be noticed as
a rumour, and dismissed as detraction.

The officers trained under Arthur acquired his tact, and imbibed his spirit: the least deemed
himself something superior to the richest trader, or the most enterprising colonist. The sub-divisions
among themselves were minute and rigorously enforced. They were, however, subject to vicissitudes.
Those who lost their appointments furnished the material of libels: reported the peculations
and duplicity of their late colleagues, and often became distinguished for their patriotism.

The patronage permitted to Arthur was enormous: to a large extent he was the almoner of the
crown. Thus disaffection became highly penal: a quarrel with a magistrate, or a friendly intercourse
with persons under a ban, exposed the delinquent to serious pecuniary loss. These considerations
were avowed.[198] The dread of injury made the timid servile, and corrupted private intercourse.
A secret influence pervaded every rank: society was embittered by suspicions and the dread
of denunciation; and had not the growth of population decreased the comparative power of the
government, or had its original plan been perpetuated, it must have formed a community of slanderers
and slaves. The intentions of the governor, however just, could not save him from the falsehood
of spies, and thus the perpetration of wrong. It was early announced that opponents would be
"crushed." The extent of the "crushing system" was greatly exaggerated, and even the course
of good government was commonly ascribed by the sufferer to official enmity and avarice.

The industry of Colonel Arthur was constant: his attention to the details of his government,
and his perseverance as a despatch writer were universally admitted: a large proportion of
his time he spent in his office, and toiled with an assiduity which would have been fatal to
ordinary men. It was commonly stated that he was not very accessible; but he willingly heard
those whose education and habits qualified them to suggest. Persons of every rank were admitted
to an audience on a slight pretence. He was quick in estimating the characters and capacities
of all who approached him.

The executive council was useful to Arthur, without obstructing his measures. When he resolved
on a project, he would nominate a board, and obtain its sanction. When his private views were
opposed to his instructions he affected impartiality, and seemed to yield rather than to guide.
These artifices were well understood; but the colony often approved the object, and admired
the ingenuity of its execution. A new colonial minister, in the hurry of his office, gladly
surrendered to the governor's judgment a question often beyond his comprehension, and which
to resist it was necessary to understand. Thus it was ordered to execute public works by contract
instead of the gangs; to levy a tax on convict labor; to retain men seven years in chains.
Boards, or commissions, which gave him the aspect of a mediator or judge, advised him to postpone
and quash the disagreeable order or restriction. Thus during his government his influence was
paramount, and inferior functionaries were satellites who obeyed his impulse, or were driven
from their spheres.

The chief justice alone could pretend to independence: by his seat in both councils he possessed
a voice in the enactment and administration of the laws--a subject of continual suspicion and
complaint, and really dangerous whenever the government was a party. The chief justice ultimately
resigned his seat in the executive council (1835). The secretary of state had declared in parliament
that legislative and executive offices were incompatible with the proper functions of a judge.

The great works of Arthur were attributed by his opponents to sinister motives: those most
frequently mentioned were the new wharf at Hobart Town, the road to Richmond, and the Bridgewater
causeway. Arthur benefited by his fore-knowledge. The imputations of personal injustice or
corruption were unfounded: what he gained, others did not lose, except by the common risks
of a sale. Thus the property of the Rev. Robert Knopwood, whom he was said to defraud, was
several times in the market: it was offered by advertisement many years before: its future
appropriation to commerce was predicted, and was described to enhance its price. It was offered
by Mr. Knopwood to Mrs. Hodgson for £800: it was purchased by Mr. H. Jennings, a nephew of
Mr. Gellibrand, senior, without reference to Arthur; and was finally sold to his agent at a
small advance. The new wharf rendered the purchase highly advantageous; but there was neither
deceit nor oppression.

The great work he began at Bridgewater, where a magnificent causeway forms the abutment of
a bridge which connects both banks of the Derwent, was a task of many years: many thousand
pounds in value lie buried. Arthur had estates in its vicinity. The other charges of corruption
are of a similar nature, even less substantial than these.

But although many of his works will perpetuate his memory while the country lasts, they could
only be justified by their connexion with penal arrangements. The discipline prescribed did
not admit of rapid movement or wide distribution. Huts were necessary for the convicts, houses
for their officers, and various stores; and it was only on extensive excavations that labor
could be inspected with success. The waste of expenditure was rather apparent than real. The
objects contemplated were not colonial; and thus, if the local obligation is lessened, the
ground of complaint is diminished.

During his government, Arthur became wealthy: his estates were numerous, and their sale realised
a large amount. That he acquired them improperly is not even capable of suspicion; that he
applied clandestinely the means afforded by his office to improve them, is equally destitute
of evidence. Nor is it easy to see how a community can be injured by the outlay of capital
acquired in its service, or the interest of its officers in the soil. The moral weight of government
was compromised far more by the air of mystery which veiled, than the corruptions which debased
it. The outcries raised against the disposal of land in special instances, were often misdirected:
many deviations from strict impartiality were prescribed by the secretary of state, whose discretion
was unlimited by regulations. Arthur was silent, and his character suffered: he despised reproach,
which notwithstanding impaired his influence for good. Just before his recall, Mr. William
Bryan made statements before the Commons of mis-appropriation of crown lands, which had been
the text of colonial articles without number, when a secretary from the colonial-office stated
that the more serious were unfounded; that many were ministerial acts; and the whole series
were reduced to comparative nothingness.[199] While Arthur had the power, he was not sparing
in its use: he endowed his friends. Nor is it incredible, that a private service to himself
detracted nothing from weight of public obligation.

Arthur was no fickle or hesitating patron, and the qualities he approved are nearly allied
to virtue: he appreciated humanity, sobriety, industrious habits, and religious decorum. Respectable
men, who did not question or cross his path, might usually calculate on his complaisance. But
those who reckoned up his estates; numbered the benefits conferred on his friends; estimated
the cost of his government; or criticised his public works; found that he did not fear, although
he detested them. The imperial officers cared not in what direction his patronage was turned,
and their nominees experienced and praised his generous discretion.

The impressions of devout men were usually favorable to Arthur: he told them his objects and
trials with apparent humility and devotion. He listened with deep attention to their plans
of usefulness, and talked, especially of the prisoners, in strains of christian compassion.
His sanction was given to every benevolent scheme, and he gathered around him a very large
proportion of those persons who care more for the circulation of religious knowledge than the
civil enfranchisement of mankind. The ready countenance of their labors lessened, in their
view, his civil faults. Nor can it be denied, that the decorous habits of the governor confirmed
his religious pretensions. Wherever he appeared, ribaldry and drunkenness vanished. The open
licentiousness of public officers he did not tolerate, except the offenders were distinguished
by official cleverness.

Addresses from all denominations of Christians expressed their admiration of his religious
sympathies and his moral worth; and in the most bitter outburst of party spirit, his domestic
character was never assailed. The testimony of Messrs. Backhouse and Walker, members of the
Society of Friends, would generally be adopted by most persons of their class:--"Our first
interview with Colonel Arthur gave us a favorable impression of his character as a governor
and a christian, which further acquaintance with him strongly confirmed. He took great interest
in the temporal and spiritual prosperity of the colonists, and the reformation of the prisoner
population, as well as in the welfare of the black inhabitants."[200]

Messrs. Backhouse and Walker were authorised by the Society of Friends, and sent on a religious
mission to these colonies: they brought a letter of introduction from the secretary of state,
Lord Goderich, requesting the governor to forward their benevolent object.

The more violent opponents of Arthur, connected with the press, afterwards retracted their
opinions; but their statements must be read with equal caution, whether they censure or praise.[201]

A collection was made by Arthur's friends in token of their regard, supposed to exceed £1,000
in value. It, however, indicated rather their liberality than their number: individual contributions
were not limited. The addresses were signed by many who were conciliated by his moral sentiments,
but disapproved of his government; they however, seemed to justify the ministerial applause
which crowned his administration. Sir George Grey referred to these tokens of esteem, as evidence
of popularity, and the contentment of the people.[202]

Arthur held his last levée on the afternoon of his departure:[203] several hundreds were present,
collected from all parts of his government. He proceeded with the chief officers, civil and
military, to the beach, where the 21st Fusileers awaited him: multitudes attended his progress;
the wharf was crowded with spectators; a hundred boats surrounded the government barge, and
followed him to the ship. The vessels in the harbour were decorated, and his numerous friends
gave the usual demonstrations of favour. In these feelings many did not participate: some followed
him with hisses and groans; others illuminated their houses in token of joy. Some fell into
the hands of the police, overpowered by their excessive gladness. Having gone through the ceremony
of embarkation he returned to his office, and spent the night in completing his last labors.
Adverse winds detained the vessel, and he passed the Sabbath in sight of that country where
his name can never be forgotten; and where monuments more durable than brass, formed by his
care, will remain to the end of time.

The manners of Arthur were formal; his tastes moral; his temper vindictive. He approved the
right, and usually followed it; but his resolution once taken, he did not hesitate. He devoted
all who opposed him: and those whom he could not conciliate, if possible, he bore down. The
sentiment of religion, however, did sometimes triumph over his antipathies. His contest with
Mr. Gellibrand, the barrister, continued many years; but they met at the sacrament shortly
before their final separation. Arthur approached the seat where Gellibrand was sitting, and
offered his hand. This being misunderstood, a prayer-book was tendered him: he then explained,
that before they joined in the solemnity which had brought them there, he was anxious for reconciliation.

Such only who know little of man, and of those conflicting passions which attain alternate
ascendancy in the human breast, will survey with distrust a scene like this. In the presence
of the Almighty the loftiest mind may bend without meanness, and recognise the moral grandeur
of a forgiving spirit.

A few months after the departure of Arthur, Mr. Joseph Tice Gellibrand lost his life. He visited
Port Phillip, a place which long engaged his thoughts: in company with Mr. Hesse, a barrister,
he set out to explore the interior; they missed their way. The guide who attended them was
convinced of danger: he could not prevail on them to change their route, and he returned alone.
Their long absence occasioned anxiety, and parties of their friends attempted to track them:
they found that when in company with the guide they had crossed the Byron, instead of the Leigh,
their intended course; they then travelled on about fifteen miles by the river side, and over
a plain, and entered a wood soon impervious to horsemen: then their track was lost. For several
years, efforts were made to solve the mystery of their fate. In 1844, the natives directed
Mr. Allen, a gentleman of credit, to a spot where they stated a white man had been murdered:
there he discovered human bones, but no evidence by which identity could be established. Beyond
this, nothing certain is known.

On his return to Great Britain, Arthur was received with favour by the ministers. He was created
a knight, and appointed governor of Upper Canada: afterwards, he obtained a similar office
in India.

Sir George Arthur cannot be withdrawn from the rank of eminent functionaries; and his administration,
on the whole, is entitled to more than respectful remembrance.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 197: Ross's Almanack, 1837.]

[Footnote 198: Mr. Meredith, of Swanport, captured bushrangers; but after their trial was anxious
to intercede for their lives. He applied to the police clerk, a ticket-of-leave holder, for
a copy of his own deposition, and that of his servant: this, not uncommon, was called a breach
of trust. The clerk was punished, and Meredith warned that he would receive no more servants,
except he could explain his conduct. A report reached the government, that himself and Mr.
Amos set the magistrates of the territory at defiance, and he was told his servants would be
probably recalled. This was a practical application of Arthur's views, before expressed to
the same settler. The governor maintained, that when the secretary of state authorised a grant
of land, it did not confer a claim on the government for the assignment of servants (Letter
to Mr. Meredith from the Colonial Secretary, 1828). It was alleged, that the conduct of Meredith
had been inimical to the government, and to the maintenance of internal tranquillity.]

[Footnote 199: At p. 148 of this volume, it is said, that an attorney-general (Stephen) received
an additional grant for improvements he never made. This, Mr. Stephen contradicted, and stated
that when he obtained his maximum grant he was not in office. The statement was made by Mr.
Bryan before a committee of the House of Commons.]

[Footnote 200: Backhouse's Narrative, p. 15.]

[Footnote 201: "At the time to which he (Mr. Hall, of the Monitor) refers,--we say it with
the deepest regret--we suffered ourselves to be influenced by a set of heartless, self interested
beings, whose opinions we blindly adopted, and to whose objects we were the dupe. Other circumstances
produced a state of excitement which can never again exist here, because it can never be again
endured."--Tasmanian (Mr. R. L. Murray), June 25, 1833.

"We were forced into opposition by what we conceived to be an act of unmerited, unprovoked
injustice, which we resented; and the perpetration of which led us to listen, and to be influenced,
by the opinions of those into whose intimate associations we were drawn. We thereby provoked
persecution, which we resented: we were prejudiced by these persecutions, and our opinions
and the expression of our feelings were influenced by this feeling of unmerited suffering,
and by the opinion of those into whose association we were driven." ... "If we have, in our
editorial capacity, wronged any man, we sincerely ask their forgiveness; and wishing health
and prosperity to every man in the colony, we now bid adieu to our editorial pen for ever."--Mr.
Gilbert Robertson's legacy: True Colonist, December 28, 1844.]

[Footnote 202: Speech, 18th of April, 1837.]

[Footnote 203: The legislative council adopted an address, which expressed a warm admiration
of his character.

"The members immediately proceeded in a body to the great entrance of the government-house,
where they were received by a military guard with presented arms; and the procession, headed
by his honor the chief justice, Pedder, were conducted to the grand room, where they were received
by his excellency, surrounded by the officers of his staff. The chief justice addressed his
excellency in a short but very handsome manner, to the effect, that the members of the late
legislative council waited upon his excellency with an address which had been voted unanimously,
and which, engrossed on vellum and signed by each individual, he then held in his hand, and
would proceed to read. His honor did so, in a most distinct and impressive manner. Having concluded,
his excellency commenced to read his reply, in which he had proceeded but little when his feelings--the
agitation of which was evidently pressing strongly upon him with each word--so overcame him,
that he was unable to continue, and burst into tears. There was not a single individual present
who did not enter warmly and sincerely into his excellency's feelings, and, perhaps, no governor
ever received a more affectionate testimony of regard and attachment than was then elicited.
The following is his excellency's reply:

'The address which you have presented to me, I most highly appreciate, every member, without
exception, having expressed his sentiment in terms so acceptable to my feelings, is the most
satisfactory testimony I could receive--that my endeavour to direct the important business
which has devolved upon this council in a conciliatory spirit, has been successful. Whilst
the utmost liberty of debate has been exercised, undeviating harmony and good feeling have
prevailed.

'The testimony you have spontaneously borne to the successful result of my labours in administering
the affairs of this government, complicated and embarrassing as they have often been from the
peculiar character and circumstances of the colony, is most gratifying to my feelings.

'To carry into the most complete effect the great object of transportation, which has rendered
the introduction of some unpopular laws absolutely necessary, to suppress the depredations
of convicts illegally at large, to form a secure and efficient penal settlement, to conciliate
the aboriginal inhabitants, and to protect the settlers from their fatal attacks, to encourage
pastoral and mercantile pursuits, to foster religion and morals, and to provide for the education
of the poor, to maintain the laws of the country, and firmly to carry into effect the regulations
of the government, have all been measures which have required the most laborious supervision.

'Yet all these have been far less embarrassing than the anxious duty which devolved upon me
for so many years of apportioning the lands of the crown amongst the settlers according to
their respective means of improving them, and of impartially considering their claims in the
disposal of assigned servants, for these were measures which affecting directly every settler's
personal interests, almost daily brought his personal feelings into action in approving or
condemning the policy of government.

'In all these matters, I have felt the full weight of responsibility in contending with the
extreme practical difficulties which have almost daily presented themselves, and which I never
could have successfully withstood, but from the support I have uniformly received, not only
from the members of the executive and legislative council, and from the officers of the government,
to whom I am greatly indebted, but from the great mass of the community, to whom through you,
on your return to your several districts, I request I may be permitted to convey my most grateful
acknowledgements, and sincere thanks, requesting them to be assured, that I shall ever most
highly appreciate the encouragement I have ever received at their hands, the strength which
my government has derived from it, and the gratifying testimonies which I have received of
their feelings towards myself personally, since I received the intelligence of his Majesty's
intention to appoint my successor.

'None but those who have had personal experience of the extreme delicacy of adjusting conflicting
interests--of maintaining the just rights of the crown without encroaching upon the reasonable
expectations of the people, can fully appreciate the value and importance of the support of
the community as a body. If my labours have been great, so has been my reward. I have witnessed
the most extraordinary rise, perhaps ever known within so short a period, in the value of property.
The foundation is now firmly laid, enterprise and the desire to improve have full scope, and
their results will be, I anticipate, increasingly developed every year.

'Having presided over the legislative council from the period of its constitution, now ten
years ago, I cannot take my leave of you without the most lively emotions, and whilst I am
most deeply sensible of your invariable kindness and forbearance towards myself, permit me
to request for my successor a continuance of that support which you have so cheerfully and
zealously during so long a period extended to me.

'Gentlemen, with the most sincere wishes for your future prosperity and happiness, I now bid
you farewell.

'GEORGE ARTHUR.

'To the Members of the Legislative Council.'"
                           --Tasmanian, August 19, 1836.]

HISTORY OF TASMANIA.

FROM 1836 TO 1843.

FROM 1836 TO 1843.

SECTION I.

Before the departure of Colonel Arthur, the brigade-major of the military district, Lieutenant-colonel
Kenneth Snodgrass, C.B., arrived at Hobart Town from Sydney. He was sworn in as acting Lieutenant-governor
on the 31st October, 1836. He had attained a military reputation in the Burmese war, of which
he published a narrative. He was cordially received, and his temporary relations were too brief
to leave any impression on colonial affairs.

The appointment of Sir John Franklin, Captain in the Royal Navy, and Knight of the Guelphic
Order of Hanover, was announced by Sir George Grey in the House of Commons, April 13th, 1836.
He was presented to the king by Lord Glenelg, on the 20th August, and embarked in the Fairlie,
on the 27th. He was accompanied by Captain Maconochie, late secretary of the Geographical Society,
and one of the professors of the London University; and by the Rev. William Hutchins, in whose
favour Van Diemen's Land was erected into an archdeaconry. Sir John Franklin assumed the government
on the 6th January, 1837.

The nomination of Franklin was acceptable to the colony. His profession, his career, and character,
were considered auspicious. He had accompanied the illustrious Flinders on his voyage of discovery,
and was at Sydney when the first party left that port to colonise this island. During thirty-four
years, he had himself obtained great nautical renown: his intrepidity, his sufferings, his
humanity and piety, had been often the theme of popular admiration, and were not unknown in
Tasmania. The colonists were resolved to give him an appropriate welcome. He saw with astonishment
the signs of wealth and activity, in a country which he only remembered as a wilderness. Crowds
followed him with acclamations: addresses, couched in language of eulogy and hope, poured in
from every district. The progress of the governor through the colony was attended with feasting,
balls, and public festivities. On his entrance into Launceston, he was escorted by three hundred
horsemen and seventy carriages: the streets were thronged; the windows were crowded by fair
spectators, who shared the general enthusiasm. The private settlers received him with unsparing
hospitality: he was both oppressed and delighted with the signs of popular joy. The hearty
frankness of his replies was contrasted with the official coldness ascribed to his predecessor.
He repeatedly reminded the colonists that, although ambitious of their favour, the duties of
his station would probably oblige him to disappoint their desires. He assured them that he
came among them without prejudice, and determined to "see with his own eyes, hear with his
own ears, and judge with his own judgment."

On his return to the seat of government, Franklin addressed a despatch to Lord Glenelg, containing
an exulting description of his tour. He had seen the colony in its holiday dress, and all parties
had mingled their acclamations. He depicted, with expressions of astonishment, the easy circumstances
and general intelligence of the settlers, and especially noticed their exertions to acquire
religious and educational advantages. His lordship replied that this report confirmed his estimate
of Franklin's predecessor. In his first minute to the legislative council, Franklin pronounced
an eulogium on Arthur's services, and laid on the table a despatch of the secretary of state,
of similar import.

The admirers of the late governor were gratified by these flattering tributes; but they were
not without risk to Franklin's general popularity. The party of Arthur was dreaded by the opposition,
and was still powerful; nor was it difficult to perceive that past animosities had lost but
little of their vigour. Captain John Montagu had been recently confirmed as colonial secretary,
and Captain Matthew Forster held the office of chief police magistrate. Most details of government
were transacted in their offices. They were both clever men: they exercised considerable local
influence, especially Montagu, in connection with the Derwent Bank. Their advice Franklin could
not easily evade. Thus the policy of their distinguished relative survived in his nephews.
Franklin was scarcely seated, when the press professed to discover that he was an instrument
in the hands of the "Arthur faction."

Arthur, anxious for the welfare of his relatives and friends, commended them to the confidence
of his successor. Many unsettled claims were left to his final decision. Colonists aggrieved
by the late governor, when their appeals for redress to Franklin (not unfrequently inequitable)
were unavailing, fancied that their former antagonists still turned the course of justice.
The sanguine hopes excited by an auspicious name, gradually gave way, and the governor was
assailed with remonstrances, which enlarged into reproaches by a rapid growth. A design was
commonly imputed to the advisers of Franklin to render him unpopular, and thus the late ruler
an object of regret; they slighted, however, the reproaches they had been accustomed to despise.

"The lingering traces" of discord, were distressing to Franklin. In answer to an address from
Richmond, which deplored the absence, and invoked the restoration, of social peace, he expressed
his anxiety with touching ardour:--"With my whole heart I agree with you. Let us be divided
then, if we cannot be united in political sentiments, yet knit together as friends and neighbours
in everything beside. Let us differ where honest men may differ; and let us agree, not in undervaluing
the points of political dissent, but in respecting the motives which may produce it; in cherishing
domestic virtues, which will be found to characterise individuals of every party, and in making
the generous sacrifice of private feelings for the general good, rather than aggravating the
importance of grievances, which must render such forbearance impossible." These sentiments,
not less charming for their amiable spirit than happy in expression, are important as maxims
of political life, and they depict the main difficulty of the governor's position.

To promote the harmony of parties, Franklin considerably added to the list of magistrates:
persons, discountenanced by Arthur, were placed on a level with their late antagonists. But
selection is difficult where many are candidates. Free settlers of all sorts were equally eligible
by their wealth, and made equal pretensions. Thus when the list was issued, it was received
with mockery and laughter; and, said the scorners, all the "coat tails,"--rarely worn, except
by free men--contain a commission. They were certainly numerous--large, in proportion to the
emigrant adult population; but who can extinguish the flames of envy without kindling contempt!
To further his conciliating policy, Franklin nominated to his council Mr. W. E. Lawrence, a
gentleman of wealth and intelligence, and great liberality of opinion. An early disagreement
with Arthur had been aggravated by frequent irritation, and excluded Mr. Lawrence from a station,
for which his qualifications were many.

But the government was disquieted by internal discord. Judge Montagu and the attorney-general
had quarrelled in open court: Mr. Stephen had eaten sandwiches in the judge's presence, so
it was said, and had delayed a trial. Montagu assailed him with a virulence scarcely tolerated
even at the bar. Without awaiting his defence, the judge poured forth a torrent of reproof,
among which the following: "No, sir; in your official capacity I shall always treat you with
the courtesy and respect due to you. Were you elsewhere, I should treat you, after your conduct,
with less courtesy than a dog."

Such quarrels were little regarded by Arthur; but when the authority fell into the hands of
Franklin, the altercations of parties were less disguised, and the moral weight of government
seriously injured. The attorney-general resigned is appointment; and shortly after, as a judge,
obtained the object of professional ambition. Mr. Stephen, while the law officer of the crown,
was said to display eminent legislative skill: his drafts often elicited considerable opposition,
and he did not disdain to explain the principles he embodied in his measures, whenever they
were seriously questioned by the public.

Before his removal from the colony, Mr. Alfred Stephen promoted a petition to the crown, for
the concession of British institutions: an instance remarkable for the unanimity of the colonists,
and the friendly countenance of the governor. It was almost universally signed (June, 1838);
but, like its predecessors, unavailing.

The opinions adopted by Captain Maconochie on convict discipline, and which placed him in opposition
to every colonial party, rendered his dismissal necessary; but it deprived the governor of
a long cherished friend, and who, in happier circumstances, might have greatly facilitated
his affairs. Thus Franklin stood alone; and the nephews of Arthur absorbed the influence, which
subordinate officers rarely acquire, without rendering their chief contemptible.

Many efforts had been made to obtain admission to the public during the sittings of the legislature.
The members had been long released from the oath of secresy, and their votes, and even the
substance of their speeches, were occasionally known. Franklin determined to throw open the
doors of the council chamber (1837), and expressed a conviction that the freedom of public
discussion, founded on accurate knowlege, would confirm the measures, or correct the wanderings
of the legislature. At the first sittings of the council, the novelty of the privilege secured
an attendance at the debates; but the desultory and heavy discussions soon tired the patience,
and members pointed with exultation or regret to those deserted benches, where patriots had
vowed to watch the course of legislation.

The principle of open debate is, however, invaluable: reporters were there, and the public
could read in an instant what it required hours to gather. Nor is the exercise of a privilege
necessary to establish its worth: the title to be present belonged to the whole people, and
Britons esteem and acknowledge a real treasure in a right. An open threshold, although rarely
darkened by guests, is the pledge that all is honest within.

SECTION II.

To compose ecclesiastical claims has ever been among the most difficult functions of the civil
government. Franklin found the relations of the churches unsettled, and among his earliest
measures was one to define the objects, and fix the amount of clerical pay.

The chaplains appointed for the Australian colonies by the crown, had been always ministers
of the church of England: the greater part of the population, mostly prisoners of the crown
or their descendants, were members of the Anglican church. Thus expediency corroborated the
exclusive claims of the clergy to the spiritual oversight of the colonies. It was, however,
impossible to obtain qualified clergymen of the English church, in sufficient numbers to supply
the penal establishments. Thus the government employed ministers of other denominations, chiefly
the wesleyan, as religious instructors; sometimes with the express sanction of the chaplains.
In the country, catechists were appointed with the concurrence of Archdeacon Scott, who, however,
were often members of dissenting communions.

At this time, the doctrinal views of the various denominations were in general harmony: the
standards of the church of Scotland, the declaration of the congregationalists, and the articles
of the church of England, are of the same general import. The wesleyans, and the society of
friends, entertain some opinions at variance with these symbols; but in their ordinary teaching,
all parties employed nearly the same theological and devotional terms. Their views of church
government, and of ritual observances, were the chief points of dissonance; but in scattered
settlements of recent formation these distinctions were rather matters of recollection than
of practice. There were no diocesan, no presbyterial or other courts. In the towns the denominations
maintained their exclusive forms and separate teachers; but controversial divinity was excluded
by common consent from rural ministrations; and wherever christian ministers presented themselves
in this character they were welcome, and in any other almost unknown. It was not possible,
or perhaps desirable, that this interchange should last: experience has shown that organisation
is requisite to permanent vigour; but when bodies of professors ranged under their separate
banners, their general sympathies were lost in the corporation spirit.

Unless as temporary agents in the instruction of prisoners, the government did not recognise
the title of any, except the Anglican clergy, to the patronage of the crown. Others were favored
with sites for their churches, and in some instances with assistance in rearing them; but at
that time land was granted to private persons, and loans of mechanics were allowed to assist
the settler in building his dwelling.

The emigration of respectable families from Scotland produced an important revolution: they,
it is alleged, constituted one half of the free settlers in the country districts. Their attachment
to that form of christianity which is professed in North Britain, was not weakened by their
migration.

The Rev. A. Macarthur, ordained a missionary minister by the united associate synod of Scotland,
arrived in Van Diemen's Land in 1823: the first presbyterian clergyman established in this
hemisphere. The innumerable sections of presbyterians differ with each other, chiefly on grounds
almost unintelligible out of Scotland.

The arrival of John Dunmore Lang, D. D., in New South Wales (1823), was an important event
in the ecclesiastical history of the Australian colonies. Although an ordained minister of
the church of Scotland, he received no assistance or special authorisation; but, according
to his account, "set forth a solitary friendless wanderer." The different sects of presbyterians
welcomed him at Port Jackson, and the foundation of a church was immediately laid. His supporters,
contrary to his advice, applied to Sir Thomas Brisbane for pecuniary aid, such as the catholics
had received already. The applicants were rejected with reproach, and were told that it would
be time enough to ask assistance, when they should prove themselves equally deserving. To this
Lang retorted, that Scotsmen did not ask toleration; and, unless degenerate, would vindicate
those rights, the swords of their fathers had won. These warlike papers were published in London,
and Lord Bathurst spontaneously expressed his regret "that his excellency had put to their
probation ministers of the church of Scotland in the colony--the established church of one
of the most enlightened and virtuous portions of the empire;"[204] The governor was ordered
to pay £300 per annum to Dr. Lang, as a stipend.

Dr. Lang, thus successful, henceforth disputed the preferable claim of the Anglican church
in every form: he celebrated marriages by bans, when he was refused a governor's license; and
when the registration act, of 1825, required every pastor to certify his ecclesiastical acts
to the parish minister, to be inserted in a general register, he questioned the existence of
a parish, and the ordinance was upset. The idea of an established clergy was thus violently
shaken, and Lang naturally detested as an ambitious innovator.

The weight of the ecclesiastical establishments in the penal colonies had been very considerable.
The churches, some of great cost, had been built wholly at the expense of the treasury; the
inferior officers were also paid or provided by the government.[205] The principal chaplains
were members of the legislative councils, and were consulted on most measures relative to religion.

Mr. Commissioner Bigge recommended the crown to reserve lands for the endowment of the church;
and in 1824, a "church and school corporation" was created in New South Wales: one-seventh
of the crown lands were granted for their use; for the endowment of a bishopric, parochial
ministers, and schools. The expense of managing this corporation exceeded its revenue. Dr.
Lang visited England, and protested against its object and enormous cost. By the recommendation
of Archdeacon Scott,[206] it is said, all these lands, excepting certain glebes, were resumed
by the crown, and the church and school corporation was dissolved.

The colonial governors never questioned the status of the episcopal clergy as the established
church. A presbyterian congregation in New South Wales, who had sustained their form of worship
without a minister for many years, applied, through Dr. Lang, for assistance in supporting
a clergyman. They were informed that the governor rejoiced in the liberality they had already
displayed, and did not doubt its future sufficiency! At Bothwell, where a great majority of
presbyterians resided, Arthur stipulated that the church erected at their solicitation, should
be given up whenever a minister of the "established church" might arrive in the district. Even
money to assist the erection of St. Andrew's Church, Hobart Town, was, at first, lent on the
bond of Messrs. Hopkins and John Walker, lest the secretary of state should demand its repayment.

The agitation of ecclesiastical rights was discouraged by the government, and the social dependence
of the settlers silenced the murmurings of discontent. Arthur, little inclined to weaken the
exclusive claim of the Anglican church, gave but £100 per annum to two ministers of the presbyterian
church stationed in the interior, and £150 to the minister at Hobart Town; and when the presbyterians
of Launceston applied for similar help, the refusal was decided and cold: they were informed
that, in the opinion of the governor, the episcopal church was fully sufficient for the wants
of the town. They were not, however, discouraged, and applied to Dr. Lang, who soon sent them
a minister--the Rev. J. Anderson.

The title of the English clergy to exclusive support, became a question of great imperial moment.
The discontent in Canada led to a canvas of the subject in the British parliament, and it was
avowed by Sir George Murray,[207] the secretary of state, that the principle of a dominant
church was both pernicious and untenable. He recommended the practice of sharing fairly among
all churches the revenues appropriated to religion. These views were soon published in the
Australian papers: they gave a new aspect to the relations of ecclesiastics, and opened a way
for a definite arrangement.

On receiving an order of the king in council, dissolving the church and school corporation,
Governor Bourke addressed a despatch to the secretary of state.[208] He observed, the time
was come to settle the public policy in reference to religion, and that to erect a dominant
church would produce incessant hostilities, and that without a chance of its permanence; he
therefore proposed to give support to the three grand divisions of christians--of the churches
of England, Scotland, and Rome; to assist them in erecting their places of worship, and paying
their ministers, yet at a rate which would leave their clergy partly dependent on voluntary
contributions. He recommended the appointment of an English bishop and a Scots' presbytery.
Against this course, he remarked, it might be objected that an equitable claim was raised in
behalf of other bodies of christians, and even jews; "this, however, was an objection to the
theory, not likely to interfere with the practical benefits of the plan."

The opinions of Bourke were favorable to the voluntary principle[209]--the only policy which
allowed a proper reverence for the rights of all; but he thought the special circumstances
of New South Wales demanded the neglect of minor inequalities. Notwithstanding, in the church
act of that colony, as it actually passed, all christian sections were entitled to participate
in the public bounty.

Two years had elapsed from the date of the despatch, when Lord Glenelg expressed his concurrence
with the outlines drafted by Bourke, and admitted that to select one church for endowment,
"even were it advisable in other respects, would not be long tolerated."[210] The moderator
of the synod of Australia addressed his lordship (Glenelg), to express their "unmingled gratitude
and joy" at the happy settlement of their affairs; and requested, that should the heads of
the other churches be seated in either council, the same honor might be conferred on a delegate
from their own. Lord Glenelg replied that it was not intended to grant to ecclesiastics a seat
in council. The publication of these despatches created considerable interest in Van Diemen's
Land: the presbyterians especially renewed their claims, and asserted the parity of their status
with the sister establishment.

Arthur, on assembling the council of Van Diemen's Land, presented these documents, and observed
that in a remarkable degree they accorded both with his opinions and his suggestions. A day
was devoted to the discussion of the subject, when all the unofficial members of the council
concurred in commending their adoption as the basis of Tasmanian legislation. Thus, in the
spirit of this resolution, the salaries of the presbyterian ministers were slightly augmented;
the wesleyans gratified with £400: considerable sums were set apart for the erection of churches.
£200 were offered to the Rev. Frederick Miller; but the principles of the independents reject
stipends from the state: £500 were, however, lent for the liquidation of the chapel debt--in
reality a donation. The congregation were not restrained by the noble example of their minister;
and reconciled their consciences to an evasion of their creed, by excuses never long wanting
to those who diligently seek them.

These measures were generally approved, and Arthur calculated that the more equal "distribution
of the revenue would suppress every factitious cause of discontent." He stated that "religious
discussion and hostility had been little known, or rather altogether unknown;" and he expressed
a hope that the visit of Bishop Broughton, then expected, would "offer an opportunity sought
for by all denominations, to manifest their consciousness that there is in our common Christianity
a bond of union."[211]

The crown erected the Australian colonies into a see (1836). Dr. Broughton was consecrated
first bishop: the event was considered auspicious to the episcopal church. Addresses from its
members welcomed the prelate during his first visitation, and efforts were made to secure the
possession of ground still destitute of clerical culture.

The proclamation of a see within the colonies, erected by letters patent from the crown, seemed
to assert the supremacy of the Anglican communion. The members of the Scotish church, however,
questioned the legality of special distinction, and maintained that the grant either of money
or power to one body, simultaneously quickened a title in the other to similar privileges.

This view was first formally announced by Mr. James Thomson, in letters published in the True
Colonist (1835), and afterwards in a pamphlet, entitled, Remarks on the Status of the Presbyterian
Church in the British Colonies. This work was accepted by Scotish colonists, as a just exposition
of their national rights, and the church of Scotland affixed to the argument "the broad seal
of approbation."[212] The argument rested mainly on the treaty of union, which provides that,
in default of express stipulations to the contrary, "there shall be a communication of all
rights and privileges, and advantages." In the spirit of this clause, the presbyterian ministers
stationed in India were recognised and placed by law under the presbytery of Edinburgh, in
the same act which authorised diocesan episcopacy. Thus again the legislature had implied a
parity of rights in the foreign port act, which required the consul to appropriate funds for
the erection of churches, and on the same terms, when demanded by the members of either establishment.
The writer appealed, with great ardour and effect, to the national history of his countrymen:
their courage in fight, their patience in suffering, and their sagacity in council. He inferred,
alike from their piety and their patriotism--their pride as Scotchmen, and their earnestness
as christians--that when they sanctioned the legislative union, the dignity of the church,
the first object of their affections, would be the last they would be likely to compromise
or to forget. But the actual position of the colonial presbyterians rendered the argument for
the present unavailing.

It was obvious, that whatever ecclesiastical arrangements were guaranteed by the treaty of
union, pertained only to the national church. The clergy of the establishment would have been
even less disposed than the crown to allow a seceding ministry to share in their legal heritage.
Yet the church at Hobart Town, founded by a seceder, was under his care. The government sometimes
called the congregation Scotch, and at others presbyterian; but never an established church.
The grant of money was expressly to the accommodation of the inhabitants "in connexion with
the church by law established in Scotland;"[213] but the deed drafted by the managers proposed
to secure the building to the dissenting incumbent, and to a congregation holding the Scotish
standards, and it recognised no presbyterial control. This description was deemed dangerously
defective. A meeting, summoned by Messrs. James Thomson, Thomas Young, and others, passed a
resolution to establish an indisputable connexion with the national section of the presbyterian
church.[214] Against the legality of this meeting, the managers and several of the congregation
offered an unavailing protest. It was asserted that, for the most part, they were dissenters
from the national church, and thus hostile to her claims.[215] A committee was appointed "to
carry out the connexion." Arthur, who was then desirous to protect the existing minister, enquired
if the movement would affect the stability of his appointment? To this it was replied, that
the duty of the committee was expressed and limited by the resolution passed, and no instructions
had been given by the meeting in reference to the relations of the incumbent. The difficulty
was, however, speedily removed: an opportunity occurred to declare the pulpit vacant, and the
appropriation of the property to the exclusive use of the church of Scotland was no longer
resisted (1836).

To perfect the claim of the colonial presbyterians, founded on the treaty of union, it was
necessary to obtain a distinct recognition by the general assembly. An act for this purpose,
had already passed that court (1833): it declared the colonial presbyteries, if constituted
by ministers of the national church alone, a part of the national church, and thus qualified
to enjoy whatever privileges that character might confer; and the standing committee of that
church were authorised to correspond and advise with the colonial presbyteries.[216]

A memorial, founded on these resolutions, was presented by the convener of the assembly's committee
to the ministers of the crown, and Sir George Grey was directed to reply, that by an arrangement
recommended to the colonial legislatures, "the church of Scotland will in these colonies, be
for the future equally entitled with the church of England to share in the public funds applicable
to the general object of religious instruction in proportion to the amount of private contribution."[217]

This arrangement, however, did not provide for appeals generated by the decisions of the colonial
courts. An application was made to allow the colonial presbyteries representatives in the general
assembly. This measure would have embarrassed a national church, and thus (1834) the general
assembly repudiated an appellate jurisdiction.

In various forms Colonel Snodgrass, while acting lieutenant governor, expressed an interest
in the church of his native country. He called a synod of ministers, elders, and delegates,
by proclamation, to be held at Hobart Town, to effect the settlement of the church, and thus
to prepare the way for its endowment. Many, favorable to the object, doubted the legality of
the meeting, and the power of any officer to proclaim the assembling of a body not recognised
by the legislative council. The presbyterians, however, maintained that they were qualified
to act under convocation by the crown, independently of parliamentary or local legislative
sanction--that the meeting or synod only prepared the preliminaries antecedent to the intervention
of law. At the time appointed the synod met: in the meantime Sir John Franklin was advised
that the proclamation of Snodgrass was irregular; he therefore sent his private secretary,
Captain Maconochie, to request the assembly to stay proceedings, with an intimation of his
friendly consideration of their claims. They, however, considered that to disperse would compromise
their rights, and therefore chose a moderator. At this stage, a counter proclamation, hastily
prepared, was brought by a messenger from the governor, and the convocation dissolved.

However conclusive this reasoning to Scotchmen, the Anglicans were little disposed to admit
its force. They asserted that the faith of the sovereign was the imperial faith, and that it
was within the competence of the British legislature to set up an exclusive establishment of
their clergy. The usual argument against the universal equality of the Scots' national church,
was the fact that the laws of England, and not the laws of Scotland, were binding in the colonies.[218]
To this it was replied, that treaties, on which the imperial legislative power was founded,
were the limits of its action; and that the ascendancy of English law in the colonies of Australia
depended on a parliamentary enactment passed by the representatives of Scotland; subject, however,
to the restrictions of the treaties in virtue of which Scotchmen were contented to sit on the
benches of Saint Stephen.[219]

Archdeacon Hutchins denied that either treaty or law prohibited a preferable claim, and remarked
that "opening the door to two co-existing establishments would shortly admit others, and thus
prepare for the destruction of all."

It was not affirmed by the Scotch, that they possessed an inherent right to the privileges
of an establishment: both, or neither, was their motto. The colony, they affirmed, was not
English nor Scotch, but British. It was the opinion of lawyers, however, that beyond the seas
the churches of England and Scotland depended for their rights on parliamentary or colonial
enactment; and that whenever obscure, a declaratory statute must fix the sense of a treaty,
and decide whether an exclusive endowment of any class of clergymen was beyond the competence
of imperial or local law.

The passing of an act in New South Wales, granting stipends in proportion to the adherents,
from £100 to £200, and the prospect of a similar act in Van Diemen's Land, led to urgent applications
for ministers by the heads of various churches. Bishop Broughton published a strong appeal
to the numerous unbeneficed clergymen in Great Britain, to whom he represented these colonies
as a field of great promise. He stated that the obtaining ministers, "was a matter of life
and death."

The son of the illustrious Coleridge exerted himself on behalf of the church of England, and
based his chief appeal on the inadequacy of the penal laws at home; the misery endured by the
poor; the numerous crimes originated by the refinement of society; and the principle of compensation,
which bound the English people to supply in colonies not less instruction than they must have
furnished in gaols.[220]

A fund was contributed, though of no great amount; but the Society for Promoting Christian
Knowledge supplemented the colonial pay, which was found inadequate to secure men of character
and education. Compared with the ground to be occupied, the church of Scotland was more successful
in candidates for this important sphere.

Dr. Lang lost no time in proceeding to Great Britain, and obtained a numerous band of clergymen
and schoolmasters, whose passage was defrayed by the colonies.

The Rev. Thomas Dugal, and other ministers of the synod of Ulster, expressed their willingness
to undertake colonial charges. Lord Glenelg enquired of Dr. M'Farlane, the convener of the
general assembly's committees, whether their appointment would be sanctioned by the church
of Scotland. To this he replied, that they might be "taken under charge of presbyteries in
connexion with their church, on their adhibiting the subscription, and coming under the engagements
required by their church, but no longer."

The admission of the Roman catholic body to equal privileges, was defended as a measure of
policy. The national clergy appealed to a legal recognition; but, until a recent period, the
catholic worship had by statesmen been both tolerated and abjured. The penal institutions required
catholic instructors, to teach a proportion of prisoners, amounting to one-third of the whole.
The appointment of the Rev. Dr. Ullathorne as vicar-general, led to increasing concessions
of money and patronage. The zeal and intelligence of that clergyman was conspicuous in the
management of the prisoner class. On their arrival, they were submitted to a course of moral
and religious training, and from his testimony it appears, that the effect was long visible,
and led to a marked decrease of crime.[221] The patronage of the crown was more freely granted
to the Roman catholics than the presbyterians, until the general policy of the state was revised.
When other non-national communions were passed over, the number of the catholics, and their
subordination to a governing body, were the reasons assigned for their special countenance.

The protestant bishop, Dr. Broughton, was preceded by the arrival of Dr. Polding, the prelate
of the Roman church. An incident occurred, which occasioned great delight to his adherents:
he landed at Hobart Town, and the governor sent down his carriage to the beach to conduct him
to the government-house. At a meeting of the catholic body, resolutions, to which Messrs. Rowe
and Hackett were the speakers, voted a present of plate, to express their gratitude for Arthur's
zeal in their cause, and his courtesy to their bishop.

Beside the leading denominations, who obtained the pay of the state, the wesleyans possessed
the great pre-requisite, a governing body. By a singular oversight, they permitted the bounty
of the treasury to descend to them in an annual donation, instead of a stipend regulated by
the general law. Their co-religionists in New South Wales now enjoy an endowment, of which
nothing can deprive them, but the joint consent of the crown and the people.

The preliminaries being settled, a bill was introduced by Franklin, and passed into law (November,
1837). It authorised the governor to grant £300 to any congregation, to provide a parsonage,
and £700 for the erection of a church, or a sum not greater than the amount subscribed by the
people. It directed the issue of a salary of £200 to any minister of the three churches, whose
congregation should be equal to eighty adults, or in towns to two hundred. The discussion of
this bill created considerable controversy: the ministers of the church of England were especially
opposed to its latitudinarian aspect, and Archdeacon Hutchins represented that the principle
was wholly untenable on Christian grounds, but cast the responsibility of a permanent establishment
of the papal faith on the members of the Scotch communion. Their protest against the bill,
and a renunciation of their claims would, he affirmed, at once fix the establishment principle.
Had the proportionate numbers of the two churches been reversed, he believed that, rather than
endow the Romish priesthood, the Anglican communion would abandon all further competition for
the favours of the state. To this the minister of St. Andrew's retorted, that the responsibility
lay wholly with the state; and that, if sincere, the English clergy might, by withdrawing their
own, remove the pretensions of all.

The archdeacon, and his clergy[222] of the English church, united in a petition, presented
by the chief justice, against the provisions of the act. They complained that its principles
were a compromise of truth, since they not only assumed that the religious "sentiments of the
Roman catholics are equally entitled with those of the protestant to the support of government,
but that every variety of religious sentiments, which is to be met with amongst the various
denominations of Christians, is entitled to support, without any reference whatever to the
conformity of those sentiments to the word of God."

The law was scarcely in action, when one of its clauses was found to operate against its professed
design. A church and a house were required before a minister could be salaried; but the settlement
of a clergyman was in fact a necessary preliminary to the erection of a church. An amendment
gave the governor a power to issue a salary on a requisition, on condition of a small local
subscription (1838). But this relaxation proved mischievous in another direction: the salary
was paid, but the church was not erected. This required a third law, and it was therefore enacted,
that if a religious edifice were not in progress within six months from the issue of a stipend,
payment should be discontinued (1840).

The colony, on the passing of the church act, was an open field. The first clerical candidate,
because he was such, engrossed a large proportion of the available signatures. The people,
generally anxious for some form of worship, both as a moral agency and from its tendency to
raise the respectability of a township, gave their names freely as bonâ fide members of either
protestant church. The inevitable result was, an eager competition by the more zealous members
of the rival communions. The meaning of bonâ fide membership of this or that church, was brought
into considerable debate. The Anglican clergy insisted on the census; the Scotch on the right
of every man to make himself a member for the purposes of the act, whatever his hereditary
or mental creed. These different views led to serious discord: the analysis of names appended
to various applications imputed all the errors, informalities, and even corruption supposed
to attach to popular elections. Those who had never thought much on religion, gave with facility
and then retracted their adhesion: they virtually changed not only their minister but their
creed. The opposite parties represented each other in terms full of reproach and bitterness;
imputations of sectarianism, intrusion, kidnapping, were the common forms of recrimination.
It would be useless to relate examples now before the writer, in colours painted by the passions
of the conflict. It is the nature of religious controversy to throw on the surface all the
malignant feelings that cloud the reputation of gentler spirits, in whom the real virtues of
a communion dwell; but the lesson is worth remembrance--that of all forms of clerical institution,
none realise less the idea of loving-kindness than that based on universal suffrage.

The social effects of this competition were lamentable: neighbours were divided, who had often
worshipped at the same altar; religious emulation sprung up in every locality: an attempt to
possess the ground, led to the marching and counter-marching of hostile forces. The advent
of an eminent clergyman on a township was reported to the head-quarters of his antagonists.
In one place the moderator had appeared, in another the archdeacon: it was thus the more zealous
partisans of either exasperated their antipathies. Again, the church act did not tie the laity
to either their ministers or their creeds: thus a dissatisfied people might easily raise the
preliminaries for a second or a third clergyman, and leave their late pastors to their salaries
and their solitude.

Demands on the treasury for the erection of churches and support of the clergy perplexed the
executive. The ordinary revenue showed symptoms of declension, and the council passed a bill
which declared that new imposts were impracticable, and vested a discretionary power in the
government to refuse assistance to any new undertaking (1841). Thus the principle of the church
act was subverted, and the grant of money for purposes of religion confided solely to the impartiality
of the administration.

The voluntary efforts of the different sects largely supplemented the legal provision. Churches
of respectable architectural pretensions were rapidly multiplied. The wesleyans, independents,
and baptists raised buildings for worship in the more important townships. Many private persons
expended large sums for these purposes.

The dependence of the clergy on the public treasury was from the first considered a temporary
expedient. Some officers of the government favored the voluntary principle, others looked forward
to endowment of the churches with lands. Bishop Broughton, anticipating the establishment of
an elective legislature in New South Wales, made an effort to secure a preliminary territorial
endowment. In presenting his petition (1839), the archbishop of Canterbury insisted that, however
impracticable in Canada, such a measure could encounter no fair objection in a colony where
so large a proportion were members of the English church. While he admitted the impartial liberality
of the government, he complained that a principle had been adopted "by which persons of all
denominations were placed on the same footing." The home government exhibited no disposition
to accede to this proposition.

A provision, however, resting on an annual vote, was obviously uncertain; and it became necessary
to declare the terms on which it was enjoyed. The minister of the day notified to the officers
of the Anglican and Scotch churches that incomes dependent on variable resources and mutable
opinions were liable to casualties. He therefore warned them that, beyond the fair influence
of the crown and the equitable claims of existing incumbents, no guarantee could be given.[223]
During a financial crisis these views were reiterated by one governor, who reminded the council
that the warning of his lordship was likely to be realised; but he added his conviction that
to render the churches independent of the state would not only relieve the local treasury,
but raise the clergy to a higher level.[224]

Archdeacon Hutchins died suddenly (June, 1841). His estimable private character and clerical
zeal endeared his memory to many. The Hutchins' grammar-school was erected as an appropriate
memorial of his worth. The vacancy occasioned by his demise suggested the establishment of
the diocese of Tasmania. This was founded by letters patent, 27th of August, 1842, when Dr.
Francis Russel Nixon was constituted first bishop. His lordship landed June, 1843, and on 23rd
of that month opened his ministry in the words of St. Paul--"I am determined to know nothing
among you save Jesus Christ." The venerable senior chaplain, on the 27th of the same month,
conducted the bishop to his throne; pronouncing the words of inauguration--"I assign to thee
this chair or see episcopal, and place thee in the same, in the name of our Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ." Twenty-one years before Dr. Bedford commenced his pastorate in the same place;
the first permanent ecclesiastical edifice erected in Van Diemen's Land, and now known as the
cathedral of St. David. Beside the endowment of the diocese made by subscriptions contributed
in England, an act was passed giving the bishop a salary independent of the estimates,--a distinction
not enjoyed by other clergymen.

It would not be possible to invest with general interest the details of ecclesiastical affairs.
The relation of the churches with each other, involving principles of colonial government,
demand a transient notice. The position of the episcopal church was anomalous and perplexing.
The forms of procedure were derived from its practice, where its supremacy was established
by law, and moderated by the crown. The patent of the see gave the bishop authority to try
and punish delinquents; but the colonial law recognised no such tribunal as an ecclesiastical
court, and patents were no further valid than they were in harmony with local acts. The governor
could give ecclesiastical preferment to episcopal ministers without the sanction of the see,
and maintain a clergyman in defiance of his bishop. For this ecclesiastical anomaly the growth
of circumstances required a remedy, and its discussion brought the bishop into collision with
a large section of his clergy, the governor, and with other denominations. The bishop withdrew
the license from certain clergymen who had been charged with serious irregularities: these
offences were not investigated with the formalities usual in England; and the clergymen dismissed
questioned the legality of their deposition. One appealed to the supreme court, but the judges
held that the withdrawment of a license was within the province of the bishop; another obtained
his salary from the treasury, the governor having refused to recognise the revocation. These
proceedings were differently viewed by the episcopal clergy. Some, in the neighborhood of Hobart
Town, remonstrated against the power claimed by the bishop to revoke licenses at pleasure,
as inconsistent with their dignity as ministers; while, on the other side of the island, their
brethren repudiated the sentiments of the remonstrants, and declared their determination to
submit "to his judgments in the Lord" (1845).

The necessity for a controlling power is recognised by every church; and moral and mental aberration,
such as no communion could tolerate, justified the interposition of authority. An exact conformity
with the English custom required the legalisation of an ecclesiastical court; but the church
act had subverted the dominant status of the English church. A court requires to subpoena witnesses,
to be protected from contempt, to have its decrees carried out by the civil powers. Questions
of ritual, such as baptism, would violate the religious opinions of other denominations. A
clergyman, for burying an unbaptised child might be liable to deposition; a baptist might be
subpoened to give evidence against him. Thus the jurisdiction of a court passed beyond the
limits of a single denomination, and involved the liability of all, at least as witnesses.
A still stronger feeling than liberty of conscience raised the opposition to this extension
of ecclesiastical power. The Scotch had claimed equality with the English church: to give the
legal rights of a court to the bishop was to create local disparity; while the presbyterian
had no religious objection to ecclesiastical courts, the other non-prelatic communions abhorred
them.

A variety of differences had created a coldness between the governor and the bishop. His lordship
had demanded the control of religious instructors; he possessed no means to employ them independently
of the convict department, or to protect them against its many changes. In repeating a prayer
for the governor and the clergy and laity, the bishop inverted the precedence, it was alleged
to degrade the governor by the transposition. Sir E. Wilmot did not enter into the views of
the bishop, who, in a charge to his clergy (1845), represented "legal help" as necessary to
the protection of ecclesiastical discipline, and expressed his intention to visit Great Britain
to obtain a more satisfactory arrangement. Petitions against ecclesiastical courts were forwarded
by the various denominations. To these the secretary of state replied that no powers had been
solicited in any way affecting others than the Anglican church; and intimating that none would
be conveyed (1847).

A conference of bishops, held in Sydney (1850), have since this period proposed a liberal constitution
for the Anglican communion, which awaits the sanction of the law. They demand the complete
organisation of the church and its government by synods, for the arrangement of spiritual affairs;
and by conventions, admitting the laity, for the management of temporalities. They contemplated
the nomination of bishops by provincial synods; and affirmed that no beneficed clergyman ought
to be deposed except by a sentence following judicial trial. These organic changes would, probably,
greatly promote the usefulness of the episcopal church; but they seem to contemplate a total
severance of its political dependence. The defect of the ecclesiastical law, which offers serious
impediments to the discipline necessary, cannot but be deemed a grievance. They have arisen
from those connections with the state which most denominations seem to bear with impatience.

The relations of the churches with each other have occasioned difficulties rarely of permanent
importance. The dispute of the prelates of the Anglican and catholic communions is an interesting
exception. It led to an adjustment of their relative rank in the colonies at large. The right
of the Roman see to appoint a bishop to act in its name had been already questioned by the
protestant prelate, and met with a protest from the altar. Such, under similar circumstances,
had been the course of Dr. Broughton. The laws of England retained the abjuration of a foreign
episcopate, and assigned the nomination of English bishops to the Queen: the catholic vicars-general
had in England exercised episcopal functions; being also consecrated to the oversight of imaginary
sees. This arrangement was needless where the catholic religion was salaried by the state.
The ancient abjuration was retained among protestants; but its spirit had expired.

The Roman catholic prelate received an address as the "Bishop of Hobart Town," and in reply
recognised the title by adding "Hobartien" to his name. This document having fallen into the
hands of the lord bishop of Tasmania, he directed a remonstrance to its author, suggesting
that to claim an episcopal jurisdiction over the city was to intrude on a diocese already appropriated.
The correspondence which followed entered largely into the religious differences of the parties.
The papers were forwarded to the secretary of state.

A complaint arising from the miscarriage of a letter addressed to the catholic prelate as bishop
of Melbourne, and a dispute in reference to precedence, in which the metropolitan of Sydney
and Archbishop Polding were concerned, also called for a final adjustment of the various points
at issue, so far as they could be settled by the state. The lord-lieutenant of Ireland, willing
to conciliate the catholics, had recommended the secretary of state to recognise the style
of their prelates. Earl Grey regretted that the lordship ordinarily pertaining to a barony
had ever been conferred on colonial sees. He, however, finally arranged that the protestant
archbishop of Australia should rank above the catholic archbishop, and the protestant bishops
before the catholic, throughout the colonies; that the titles of "your grace" and "my lord"
should be accorded indifferently to both classes of bishops, but that the government should
not, in official correspondence, recognise any title complicated with the name of any city
or territory within the British dominions, not authorised by letters patent from the crown.
Thus neither side could claim the victory, more being allowed to the catholics than they could
expect as a religious denomination; while the territorial honors were conferred exclusively
on the nominees of the crown.

On the disruption of the church of Scotland the members of that church in Tasmania were involved
in serious disputes, which terminated in the resignation of several of their clergy, and the
formation of separate congregations. The free and residuary Assemblies opened a correspondence
with the colonies, demanding to know to which part the colonial ministry adhered. The opinions
of the local clergy were divided; but they concurred in a general expression of regard to the
principle of church independence, and their satisfaction that they themselves enjoyed the liberty
for which their brethren were obliged to contend,--thus leaving to inference their religious
connection, and giving no ground to call in question the ecclesiastical status and revenues
conferred by the church act. This answer was considered by the free church evasive; and its
more ardent supporters on the spot pronounced the course of the local presbytery jesuitical
and dishonest. They affirmed that the church of Scotland alone was entitled, by colonial law,
to state support; and that the retention of its emoluments was a virtual adherence to its principles.
This discussion has been extremely fertile of controversies; but the general reader would not
be likely to enjoy them.

Should the reader infer from the record of ecclesiastical divisions that the colonial temper
is intolerant, he would be greatly mistaken. The laity, often even the clergy, have given evidence
of their charity in friendly sympathy and generous assistance. The rights of conscience are
generally understood and respected; and although many are prepared to liberate the churches
from dependence on the state, but few would desire to establish invidious distinctions. The
tendency of colonial life is to annul the prejudices of European society, and to yield to every
man the position which may be due to his talents and virtues. This feeling is, however, found
compatible with religious predilections. One hundred clergymen, many wholly sustained by the
people, labor to diffuse their views of Christianity in the various districts of the island;
and the emigrant population are usually in attendance on their teaching. The census is an imperfect
index of actual strength, the smaller sects exerting proportionately more influence. When the
claims of prescriptive authority are finally exchanged for a reliance on moral power these
discrepancies will disappear, and a vast apparatus, already supplied by the state and private
zeal, will bring within reach of every colonial family some form of Christian doctrine. The
tendency of small communities is not unfavorable to the progress of religious denominations.
The only interruption to the monotony of life is found in the church: the only association
which can be readily offered to strangers is provided by the religious bond. Opinion acts with
increased power where the social inequalities are slight. Thus, in the United States of America
every extravagance of sentiment is tolerated; but there a man of no religion is suspected,
shunned, and left to solitude.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 204: Lang's History of New South Wales, vol. ii. p. 258.]

[Footnote 205: An organist of St. John's Church, Launceston, refused to play, and was sentenced
to punishment; but was restored by the intercession of the clergyman.]

[Footnote 206: Macarthur's New South Wales.]

[Footnote 207: "Sir George Murray maintained that this country was bound to provide the means
of religious instruction for the people of our colonies: at the same time he begged to say,
that so far from approving the maintenance of any exclusive system in the colonies, he thought
any such system there, bad and dangerous. He was of opinion that parties of all religious persuasions
were equally entitled to support, and he deprecated the exclusive establishment there of any
one church above all others."--Parliamentary Debate, July 13, 1832.]

[Footnote 208: 30th September, 1833.]

[Footnote 209: "I would also earnestly recommend that provision be made for the schools, in
which the children of persons of different religious tenets may be instructed without distinction,
on the plan now adopted in Ireland. The means of education being secured, I shall feel disposed
to leave it to the voluntary contribution of the inhabitants to provide for churches and clergy.
To aid all where the creeds are various seems impossible, and a partial distribution of the
public funds appears nearly allied to injustice."--Despatch of Sir Richard Bourke, respecting
land in Port Phillip, October, 1835.]

[Footnote 210: Despatch, November, 1835.]

[Footnote 211: Minute, 1836.]

[Footnote 212: Rev. J. Lillie's Letter to Rev. W. Hutchins, p. 13.]

[Footnote 213: Arthur's minute, 1833.]

[Footnote 214: "The whole of the objects which the congregation desired to maintain, are very
clearly to be gathered from the second resolution, and these appeared to consist in maintaining
their connexion with the church of Scotland by law established, and the control which belongs
to ecclesiastical courts of the national establishment over the minister as well as the congregation;
for it is evident that all grants are made to them as a part and parcel of the community of
the national church of Scotland as by law established: and it is only in that character that
they have claims on the government, any more than the catholics, wesleyans, independents, or
unitarians."--True Colonist, May 29, 1835.]

[Footnote 215: "Accordingly we find that the majority, if not all, the protesters are not members
of the church of Scotland, being either burghers, anti-burghers, independents, or episcopalians,
and as such opposed to the Scotish church."--True Colonist, May 29, 1835.]

[Footnote 216: "The assembly instructed the committee for the colonial churches to insist on
the fair and full execution of the laws at present existing, and on the insertion in any new
enactment for the government of the colonies, such clauses as will unequivocally place the
churches in connexion with the church of Scotland on a footing as favorable with respect to
holding property, receiving a share of government grants, and having their procedures in matters
ecclesiastical carried out with as prompt effect, as are enjoyed by those branches of the church
of England recognised in the same."--Lillie's Letter, p. 35.]

[Footnote 217: Lillie's Letter to Rev. W. Hutchins, p. 9.]

[Footnote 218: "I cannot see why the national legislature may not determine what will be the
established church of the colony, with just as much propriety as it determines what shall be
the prevailing law. A separate and integral part of an empire at large, can have no right to
do this. As soon might a number of Cornish men insist upon their right to have introduced the
peculiar laws and customs by which the mining operations of the county are regulated."--Letter
of Archdeacon Hutchins to Rev. J. Lillie.]

[Footnote 219: "But let me tell you, Scotland is not asleep to her rights and privileges: she
is still the same independent dame she ever was.... The instant you touch her religion, or
presume to put indignity or insult upon her venerable church, either at home or abroad--a church
from whom she has received so many benefits, and who has grown old and grey headed in her service--her
proud and independent spirit rises. She appeals to her marriage contract--her articles of union;
and if I mistake her not, she will sooner retire to her mountain freedom, and her 'single blessedness,'
than consent to have them violated. Nemo me impune lacesset, is still Scotland's motto."--Letter
of Rev. J. Lillie to the Rev. W. Hutchins, p. 18.]

[Footnote 220: An Appeal to the Friends of the Church of England, in behalf of their Brethren.

The extreme difficulty may be inferred from the following:--"Fully agreeing with you as to
the necessity of such an appointment (at Norfolk Island), I have used every endeavour to find
a clergyman of the church of England, qualified for the office; but I regret to inform you
that I have not been successful, and the archdeacon has been equally unfortunate. I have, therefore,
felt it my duty to institute inquiries in other quarters."--Lord Glenelg, 1835.]

[Footnote 221: Evidence before the House of Commons, 1837.]

[Footnote 222: Excepting Dr. Browne and Rev. R. R. Davies.]

[Footnote 223: Lord J. Russell's despatch, 31st December, 1839.]

[Footnote 224: Finance Minute, 1845.]

SECTION III.

The education of the people, every where a question of difficulty, has been not less so in
Tasmania. In the elder colony seminaries for the more opulent classes were projected at an
early period. In 1825 the church and school association formed a boys' grammar-school. In '29,
Dr. Lang, who had been at issue with the Anglican clergy on this as on other subjects, prevailed
on the home government to authorise the loan of £5,000, to be repaid by Scotch mechanics, to
be conveyed at Dr. Lang's risk, and employed in building a college. Prior to this date Dr.
Lang had been concerned in the foundation of the Sydney College, of which the first stone was
laid, but ecclesiastical difficulties prevented its vigorous encouragement. Vast controversies
followed this revival of learning. The government voted considerable sums for the education
of the settlers' sons; but the secretary of state objected to the expense, and ruled that the
scholars did not belong to a class entitled to gratuitous instruction.[225]

In this colony Colonel Arthur had established a superior school (1834), under the governorship
of official persons. The episcopal system was to rule: the children of others were eligible,
provided they submitted to catechetical instruction. The plan of the school was suggested by
Dr. Broughton, and was calculated on the idea of an ecclesiastical relation to the colony,
which subsequent enactments disturbed. Colonel Arthur found serious obstacles in carrying out
the scheme, and he suffered it to drop. The Rev. Mr. Rusden was nominated first master; but
the question of religion was again fatal to its success: the school sunk into a private establishment.

The project of Colonel Arthur was succeeded by another more extensive in its aim. Sir John
Franklin addressed Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, describing the religious elements of the colony, and
requesting the arrangement of details for the future management of an establishment. The great
difficulty was still the ecclesiastical relations of the settlers. Dr. Arnold suggested a double
chaplaincy, and a religious education rather than a merely secular system; and recommended
that the head master should be permitted to take orders. Mr. G. P. Gell, of Cambridge University,
was nominated principal.

In 1840, the legislative council sanctioned the establishment of a college and the erection
of buildings. The cost was variously estimated from £12,000. The Queen's school, intended to
be afterwards a preparatory institution, was first formed. The denominational leaning of the
college awakened considerable opposition. The Roman catholic vicar-general declared that the
authorised version of the scriptures was a mutilation, and compiled to suit the views of the
translators; that catholics could not pray with protestants; and urged other objections, not
new to theologians, but which appeared outrageous to a colony accustomed to a liberal intercourse.
The presbyterians prayed for religious equality, and other sects joined in the general aversion
to an episcopal institution at the public cost.

The government, by the advice of Mr. Gell and the archdeacon, selected New Norfolk as the college
site. On the 6th of November, 1840, the foundation-stone was laid by Sir John Franklin, assisted
by the members of council and heads of departments, and by Captains Ross and Crozier, of the
antarctic expedition. "The college was dedicated to Christ,--intended to train up Christian
youth in the faith as well as the learning of Christian gentlemen."[226] The night following
the ceremony, thieves overturned the foundation, and stole the inscription and the coins. But
difficulties more fatal beset the institution. The pride of equality and the ambition of pre-eminence,
not less than tenderness of conscience on either side, prevented a compromise. In private life
concessions are found compatible with the utmost zeal, but the rivalry of churches has never
been adjusted. The Queen's school, the pilot institution, was not more successful. At an expense
of £1000 per annum twenty-three scholars (1843), for the most part children of government officers
and opulent shopkeepers, were educated. The institution was broken up by Sir E. Wilmot; and
a petition, signed by great numbers, requested the erection of a school on a more comprehensive
basis. This memorial being remitted to the secretary of state, Lord Stanley replied (1846)
that, when established, a proprietary school would receive from the crown whatever assistance
the public resources might justify. The direct interference of the government in the education
of the higher classes thus terminated.

The schools for the working classes were originally controlled by the government. Mr. P. A.
Mulgrave, many years chairman of quarter sessions, arrived with the appointment of superintendent.
This office was, however, filled by the senior chaplain; and until 1838 the schools were exclusively
episcopalian. The altered policy of the crown, in reference to religion, suggested a change
in the organisation of the schools. A letter, written by Sir Wm. Herschell, was transmitted
by Lord John Russell, detailing the system at the Cape of Good Hope, and recommending the British
and Foreign system for colonial adoption. On this plan schools were established in 1838, subject
to a board nominated by the crown. It was intended to comprehend all denominations. The clergy
of the Anglican church were from the first hostile to comprehension. Archdeacon Hutchins demanded
that if an exclusive system were no longer attainable, a fixed sum should be divided among
the different denominations, to be expended in separate schools, in proportion to the money
issued under the church act. The laity in general, however, did not object to the union of
all sects on the plan proposed; and to the last the British system was supported by a considerable
majority, including clergymen of every sect, both protestant and catholic.

In New South Wales an attempt was made to establish the Irish system, the school books of which
were sanctioned by the chief prelates of the protestant and catholic churches in Ireland. The
protestant bodies were, however, averse to the exclusion of the "entire scriptures," as a discreditable
compromise, and met the project with decided resistance. A committee, of which one half were
episcopalians, organised under the sanction of Bishop Broughton, called on the laity to exert
themselves in the "holy cause"[227] of opposition to the project of Sir Richard Bourke; and
they succeeded in its defeat: but when, after their victory, they met to collate their plans
for further action, the meeting was abruptly terminated by Dr. Broughton, who declared that
he could co-operate in no scheme not framed on the recognition of the episcopal catechism and
clerical superintendence. Denominational schools were, therefore, established, and those abuses
arose inseparable from a plan which makes men the assessors of their own pecuniary claims.

A committee of the legislative council recommended the establishment of a general system, on
the plan of Lord Stanley (1844). They alleged that by the denominational system more than half
were left uneducated, and that the thinness of population, the diversity of opinion, the inferior
character of the schoolmasters, and the great expense compared with the benefit secured, enforced
the importance of a general and comprehensive scheme. Sir George Gipps warmly seconded these
opinions, but was compelled to yield to the strength of the opposition offered by the clergy,
and which no concession short of ecclesiastical control was deemed sufficient to remove. The
agitation of this subject for several years has lessened none of the difficulties which attended
it, and it remains a vexed question for solution by future legislators.

When the British system was established in Van Diemen's Land, masters were sent out by Lord
John Russell, at the colonial cost. The schools were, however, regarded with increasing aversion
by the episcopal clergy. Messrs. Lock and Fry, the last a clergyman and the author of a work
on apostolical succession, visited the schools to report on them. They saw, or thought they
saw, laxity, sectarianism, and partiality; and they gave the results of their enquiries in
a copious publication. On the arrival of the Right Rev. Dr. Nixon this book was placed in his
hands. He petitioned to be heard by counsel against the British system. His request being granted,
he delivered an earnest address, in which he not only opposed the principle of the school,
but reiterated many of the statements of Messrs. Lock and Fry. The Board of Education had,
however, forwarded minute contradictions to these allegations; and Governor Wilmot resolved
to support the schools until, on a full consideration of the adverse testimony, the secretary
of state should otherwise determine (1843). Lord Stanley recommended the appointment of a commission
of enquiry, which was accordingly confided to three episcopalian laymen, who acquitted the
schools of most of the imputations of their former visitors. But the seals of the colonial-office
had fallen into the hands of Mr. Gladstone. This event was fatal to the British system. The
scholastic minister professed to examine elaborately the principles of colonial and church
education, and came to the conclusion that a scheme of biblical instruction, confided to various
teachers of uncertain creeds, was too little for the churchmen, ought to be too much for the
catholics, and could only be agreeable to independents. He argued that church teaching includes
all that a church believes, and that its inculcation was necessary to meet the fair requirements
of religious liberty. Acting on a suggestion in his despatch, Sir William Denison granted a
fixed sum per head to the denominational schools, dissolved the board of education, and appointed
as inspector the son of the illustrious Arnold.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 225: Lord Glenelg's despatch, 1836.]

[Footnote 226: Sir J. Franklin's Narrative, p. 77.]

[Footnote 227: Address of Committee.]

SECTION IV.

The claims of the churches on the treasury (1838) soon threatened the government with serious
difficulties. It was resolved to increase the revenue by prohibiting colonial distillation.
This trade had been often interrupted by the ordinances of the governors, but when the crown
ceased to purchase wheat at a high fixed price it was deemed unfair to the farmer to restrict
the local market for his produce. Duties were imposed, but they discriminated between sugar
and cereals, and between colonial and imported grain. This distinction offered ample opportunity
for evasion. The distillers employed these various articles at their own pleasure, and paid
the lowest duty. Colonial spirits were sold as foreign; and the permits of the police-office
covered the transit of quantities greater than they specified. From £5,000 to £7,000 were annually
lost. The bill introduced to extinguish the trade was resisted by Mr. W. E. Lawrence and other
leaders of the country party. They objected both to the suppression of a lawful trade and the
injury inflicted on those who had embarked their capital. The government proposed to include
in the bill a provision for the indemnity of the distillers, leaving its amount to be settled
by a committee. To this Chief Justice Pedder strongly objected. The government was unwilling
to entrust to a jury the claims of the distillers, as proposed by the chief justice; and, not
wishing to delay the law, passed it without granting any security beyond admitting the equity
of compensation.

The laxity of the distillation laws had enabled the manufacturers to realise double profits,
by graduated duties, mostly paid under the lowest denomination. Their gains during the past
could not be questioned; but Sir John Franklin was persuaded that it would be ridiculously
profuse to pay an indemnity for the loss of profits rated by the success of an illicit trade.
A resolution passed the council, "That any applicant having been proved, to the satisfaction
of this council, to have been in the habit of distilling contrary to law, has, by such practice,
destroyed any claim he might have otherwise had to compensation." To ascertain this fact a
"feigned issue bill" was brought into the council. It simply referred the question of illegal
distillation to the jury, without assessing their claims. The right of the distillers to compensation
was, however, so indisputable, and the retrospective action of the bill so liable to objection,
that it was generally opposed; and, by the dissent of the lawyers, the treasurer, with all
the non-official members, rejected by the council. The attorney-general, Mr. Macdowell, impressed
with its injustice, informed the governor that he could not support the bill; in this resolution
he had been fortified by the strongly expressed opinions of his colleague, Mr. H. Jones, the
solicitor-general, who denounced its principle as utterly iniquitous and unprecedented: but
on the resignation of Mr. Macdowell, Mr. Jones accepted his place, and voted for the bill:
defending his conduct by stating that he had expressed his former opinion in ignorance of its
details. The public indignation was excited by this apparent perfidy, for which Mr. Jones atoned
by a speedy resignation. The financial success of the suppression was mentioned by Sir John
Franklin in exulting terms. The law is, however, regularly violated when grain is low. Private
stills have supplied spirits more than usually deleterious; and the revenue has shown a decline.
The rights of the distillers were recognised by the home government, and their unsettled claims,
to the amount of £7,431, were paid in 1843.

The duty of a member of the government to support, at all events, the measures of his chief,
was asserted by the secretary of state. If his conscience would not permit his acquiescence,
he was expected to resign. Thus, while his oath bound him to advise, as a legislator, according
to his convictions, his interest, as a public officer, compelled him to submit to the impulses
of another. From this condition the chief justice was excepted,--a condition hard to an honorable
man and unfair to the colony. However plausible the reasons for distinguishing between an official
duty and a conscientious belief, public morality abhors them; and Mr. Macdowell is entitled
to the colonial remembrance, as one among few who have refused to support a measure because unjust.

The extensive land sales, combined with the demand for labor (1840), induced Sir John Franklin
to promote emigration. The impression was general that transportation to Van Diemen's Land
would cease; such had been announced as the policy of the crown. A vessel was dispatched to
Adelaide, where many were suffering severe distress. The New Zealand emigrants were also dissatisfied,
and many found their way to colonies where wages were high. This course was inconvenient, and
excited great indignation among employers in South Australia, who prevailed on the government
to pass a law intended to check emigration to Van Diemen's Land.

Sir J. Franklin disapproved of these methods of supplying the labor market, and proposed to
devote £60,000 for the introduction of suitable working families from Great Britain. By many
this movement was hailed with strong expressions of approbation, as a pledge of social elevation
of the working classes. It was urged by Mr. Philip Smith, of Ross, that "without an extensive
emigration and a stop to the introduction of convicts it was in vain to hope for permanent
prosperity." Mr. Berthon, of Woodlands, asserted that "before the colony could thrive a better
description of peasantry was necessary, which could never be found in the sweepings of gaols"
(October, 1841). Pursuant to these views the governor authorised the settlers to select for
themselves, by their own agents, the persons they required. Every considerable inhabitant received
the necessary authority to ship such laborers, under indentures, at the colonial cost, it being
found that useful workmen were indisposed to emigrate except to a master already known. The
greater part of the settlers appointed Mr. Henry Dowling their agent. It was the intention
of the local government that laborers should be sent out in small numbers by the regular traders;
and thus afford time to pay the cost of their transit without difficulty to the treasury. The
emigration commissioners objected to all these plans, and set them aside. Indentures were disallowed;
and instead of laborers in the proportions required, families were conveyed, or they were sent
in rapid succession, hundreds together. On their arrival a financial crisis reduced their wages:
the home government changed its views, and resolved to continue transportation: the land fund,
which had reached £52,000 in 1841, rapidly declined, and in 1843 Lord Stanley was informed
that for years to come little revenue could be expected from the sale of land. The local officers,
unable to pay the charge, were induced to dispute it; and they attempted to cast on the agents
of immigration the failure of plans disallowed by the commissioners. They evaded the payment
for one year. The claims of the shippers were instantly allowed by the secretary of state,
with the usual interest; and Mr. Dowling, who had been aspersed by the local government, was
amply vindicated by the commissioners. The colonial secretary charged him with collusive sale
of his agency to London shippers, and a fraud on the colonial treasury. Mr. Dowling protected
his character by an appeal to the supreme court, when Mr. Horne, the attorney-general, admitted
that the imputation was unfounded, but succeeded in convincing the jury that no malice is to
be inferred from the tenor of a libel when the writer cannot be supposed to be influenced by
mere personal animosity. Mr. Dowling lost by his agency more than a thousand pounds.

An exceedingly useful class of emigrants arrived under the commissioners, who readily sanctioned
the applications, regard being had to the equality of the sexes. The commissioners defended
their opposition to the plans of the local government. They asserted that private agents could
never select laborers in numbers sufficient to freight a ship; and they inferred that transferable
orders for the payment of bounty on the arrival of emigrants would be either matters of traffic,
or that private persons, discouraged by the difficulties of their task, would abandon it in
despair.

For two or three years the emigrants were satisfied and moderately prosperous. The sub-division
of town property was rapid. On every side small brick tenements multiplied. Every mechanic
aspired to possess a dwelling of his own. But Lord Stanley's system of probation rapidly told
on the condition of the workman. He stood aghast; he persevered for a time; he appealed to
the government for protection against convict competition. For one-fourth its actual cost his
property passed into the hands of others: in Launceston especially many suburban neighbourhoods
were deserted. The emigrants brought out at so much public and private cost were expelled to
the adjacent settlements, to begin the world anew.

One of those seasons of general distress to which small communities are especially liable pervaded
the entire colonies (1841-4). A variety of causes contributed to augment its pressure, and
to involve the whole in commercial embarrassment. The imports of New South Wales and Van Diemen's
Land exceeding £20 per head; the high price of grain, reaching 28s. per bushel; the enormous
rate of interest, and the boundless extravagance of credit and expense, produced a convulsion
all but universal.

The measures of the government increased the pressure of these difficulties. The land sales
by auction at Port Phillip were succeeded by the system of selling on special surveys, at £1
per acre; and he who, one year before, had competed for his purchase, found the next section
in the hands of his neighbour, at half the price he had given. The settlers in the elder colonies
had speculated deeply. Stock and implements were transferred to the new country, under cover
of credit. Competition raised the value of bullocks to £30 per pair; of horses to £60; of sheep
to £2; the wages of servants to £50 per annum.

The government had raised the minimum price of land; and thus those who were entitled to take
up their surveys under a lower denomination hastened their purchases with borrowed money. The
London merchants consigned immense quantities of goods on speculation which were poured into
the market; the promissory notes of irresponsible persons were taken by their agents: the fraudulent
laid up for the crisis; insolvent estates were crowded into auctions; goods sunk below the
expenses of the factor; dividends of a few shillings in the pound represented the assets of
persons indebted from £50,000 to £100,000; and had not the chief losses finally rested with
the London merchants and the English banks, the disasters of the times must have long retarded
colonial prosperity.

The effects of this revulsion were soon felt in Van Diemen's Land, where peddling traders had
thriven in momentary credit by the union of worthless names on their bills. As an instance:
one hundred bushels of wheat, sold ultimately for £40, were transferred to a succession of
speculating purchasers, who raised among them £1000, on credit of the exchange from one to
another. The governments of the colonies had exhibited remarkable miscalculation. In all the
treasury failed to meet the expenses. The deposits formerly realised by land sales were withdrawn
from the banks. Debentures were issued; new taxes were imposed. The commercial panic was in
full career when the crown renewed transportation to Van Diemen's Land; and thousands and tens
of thousands of British offenders were gathered on these shores. The expenditure of the government,
though large, was chiefly confined to the Capital, or fell into the hands of the merchants;
but it is worthy of remark, that, except one house, all who could pretend to that rank maintained
their position.

The settlers were, however, deeply involved. They were mostly induced to purchase at the land
sales by borrowed capital. They complained bitterly of the usury, to which their produce bore
no comparison; and incessantly invoked the legislature to limit the exactions of money-lenders.
To aggravate these evils American flour poured into the colonial markets, drawing their cash
and rendering agriculture profitless. The declarations of insolvency were daily. Whole streets
of mechanics and traders followed each other. A common liability to the same ordeal introduced
a system of dangerous license; and men walked away with their creditors' property without molestation
and almost without reproach. The statistics of these times afford a memorable warning to all.
To the government, that by enticing the people to purchase land, the general revenue will suffer
by their imprudence; to the banks, that by reckless advances capital will be sacrificed for
nominal assets; and to the British merchants, that by glutting every store with speculative
consignments they render their exports of no value--that they ruin the shopkeeper, whose capital
they destroy by the competition and sacrifice of their own.

But the great resources of the colonies soon manifested themselves. A settler at Port Phillip
discovered or applied the art of boiling down the surplus stock, so as to produce the tallow
of commerce; and sheep, lately 2s. 6d., became worth eight shillings. The discovery of the
Burra mines raised Adelaide from deep prostration. The opening of new tracts of country offered
a vast field for successful enterprise; wool once more rose in price; the banks lowered their
discounts to a reasonable level; the goods saved from the general wreck appeared in the shops
of those who took the tide at its flow; and every colony exhibited the signs of returning vigor--all
but Van Diemen's Land.

SECTION V.

The last three years of Sir John Franklin's administration were chiefly employed in arranging
the details of the system of convict discipline, afterwards expanded by Lord Stanley to gigantic
proportions, and described in the second volume of this history. Accompanied by Lady Franklin,
Sir John penetrated the western district of Van Diemen's Land to Macquarie Harbour, formerly
a penal station, to ascertain its fitness for a similar purpose, and some of the perils of
his early life were renewed. His absence for several weeks awakened great anxiety, and his
return was greeted with a general welcome (1842).

The most painful event of his political career sprung from a disagreement with the nephews
of Sir George Arthur, and especially with Mr. Montagu, the colonial secretary. A narrative
of this dispute, written by Franklin on his return to England, was issued for private circulation
just after he started on his last voyage of discovery.[228] This account traces minutely the
progress of a quarrel which all parties concerned are anxious to forget. The power acquired
by Mr. Montagu in colonial affairs was considered by Franklin incompatible with their relative
position. Inferior officers had been dismissed on his imperative advice, who complained that
they were sacrificed because they stood in his path and thwarted his plans. Franklin partly
shared in their suspicions, and appointed persons to offices who were unconnected with the
Arthur party, and as a counterpoise to their influence. The immediate cause of the final rupture
was the restoration of a colonial surgeon, dismissed on a charge of culpable negligence. His
neighbors, believing the penalty unjust, remonstrated in his favor, and Franklin complied with
their request. This Mr. Montagu severely condemned, as fatal to the dignity of government,
and ascribed the lenity of Sir John to the influence of Lady Franklin. He then announced to
the governor, in a formal manner, that thenceforth he should confine his own services to the
routine of his office, and that a cordial co-operation might be expected no longer. The details
of business, formerly prepared to the governor's hands, were left to himself: trifles exhausted
his attention: his pleasure was asked with affected formality, and his enquiries answered with
studied reserve. In a dispute with the governor in reference to a matter of fact, Mr. Montagu
addressed him (17th of January, 1842)[229] in the following style:--"I trust," said he, "your
excellency will also pardon me for submitting to you--and I beg to assure you that I do so
under a deep conviction of the necessity of supporting my statement--that while your excellency
and all the members of your government have had such frequent opportunities of testing my memory
as to have acquired for it the reputation of a remarkably accurate one, your officers have
not been without opportunity of learning that your excellency could not always place implicit
reliance on your own." Clothed in a profusion of words, the charge of imbecility or falsehood
was understood. The jealousy and contempt which had characterised the late official intercourse
of Sir John and the secretary could not but injure the public service and divide the government
into factions. But this language was deemed inconsistent with official subordination, and on
its receipt Mr. Montagu was dismissed. Aware that it would be difficult to justify his note,
Mr. Montagu offered an apology, with a view to a restoration. He sought, through Dr. Turnbull,
the friendly offices of Lady Franklin. Her mediation was employed, and was unsuccessful; but
Sir John promised to represent the past services of Montagu in the most favorable terms to
the secretary of state, strongly recommending his employment elsewhere. This pledge the governor
redeemed. Lord Stanley received Mr. Montagu with favor--consulted him in reference to convict
discipline--heard his complaints of Sir John and Lady Franklin--and treated the governor in
his own imperial way. He admitted that the proper relative positions of Franklin and the colonial
secretary had been inverted; but ascribed the ascendancy of Montagu to his intellectual superiority;
ordered his salary from the hour of his dismissal to be paid; and claimed the credit of great
moderation in not sending him back to his office. The generous testimony of Sir John in Montagu's
favor was quoted to condemn his dismission. The despatch containing these sentiments was placed
in the hands of Montagu, who, with natural exultation, sent it out instantly to his friends.
He had preserved minutes of his interviews with Lord Stanley, and recorded his own severe reflections
on the character of Lady Franklin. These memoranda, bound together, were sent by Mr. Montagu
to the colony, and, although circulated with some reserve, became very generally known. The
governor complained bitterly of this covert detraction, and especially of the attack on the
character of his wife, whom he solemnly vindicated from that interference with public business
charged upon her. No one who reads the dispute will deem it necessary to weigh nicely the reproaches
which were current on either side. To destroy or be destroyed is the usual choice of official
war; and Montagu had not been bred in a school where more generous maxims prevail. He had conquered;
and the feelings of the governor or his partisans were not likely to be treated with tenderness.
Sir John is perhaps the only man who ever accompanied a dismissal with eulogy, and the result
of his candour will probably prevent its imitation.

To Lord Stanley more blame must be attached. It was his duty to care for the reputation of
a governor whom he did not instantly recall. But his despatch was in print long before it reached
the hands of Franklin, and must have been fatal to his proper authority had not popular sympathy
sustained his government. Before Sir John received an official notice of his recall his successor
arrived. On this abrupt termination of his office he obtained private lodgings in haste. The
Legislative Council, then sitting--the various churches and literary societies, expressed their
admiration of his personal character, and, more sparingly, their approval of his administration.
He was attended, on his departure, by a considerable party of northern colonists. Sir John,
in reply to their addresses, spoke with some warmth of that portion of the press which had
libelled his wife,--a lady devoted to the welfare of the colony; whose last act was to settle
property on an institution for scientific uses; whose benevolence was unbounded, and who, at
a large sacrifice of her private fortune, had ministered to the comforts of the poor. Had it
been consistent with his duty, he said, he would have gladly exposed to the whole people his
most secret measures. He declared that he would never fail to uphold the reputation and to
promote the prosperity of the colony. The frank and humane temper of Sir John Franklin won
the affections of the settlers. He thought favorably of their general character, appreciated
their moral worth, and shared in their notions of convict discipline. The insults of which
he complained were the acts of a few: a philosopher would have smiled where he deprecated;
and have felt that the salary of office is not more certain than the enmities which surround it.

The alleged ascendancy of Lady Franklin in public affairs it would be useless to discuss. Her
masculine intellect and adventurous spirit led some to ascribe to her more than the usual authority
of her sex and station; but whenever apparent, her influence was exercised on the side of religion,
science, and humanity.

The appointment of Franklin to this government was made at the instance of William IV., by
whom he was greatly esteemed. It was the expectation of Sir John to find an easy retreat, like
some of the military governments, where veterans enjoy the dignity of office without its toils.
But he found himself doomed to encounter all the responsibilities of ordinary legislation and
government, with difficulties peculiar to a penal colony. For this his former pursuits had
not prepared him. His manner was often embarrassed and hesitating, and presented a contrast
to the quiet vigor of his more able but not more amiable predecessor. The colony had attained
that development when the public institutions require reconstruction, and the popular will
must in some measure regulate their form and spirit. The administration of the governor was
eminently disinterested. He had no private speculations or secret agents, and his measures
were free from both the taint and the reproach of corruption. Such faults were sometimes imputed,
but they were the staple slanders of writers without credit or name. His expenditure greatly
exceeded his official income; and while the plainness of his establishment and entertainments
was the topic of thoughtless censure, the charities of his family were scattered with a liberal
hand. The piety of Franklin was ardent, and his conscience scrupulous. His remarks in council
on the sports of some idle boys in the government domain on the Lord's Day exposed him to the
satire of scorners. He thought that youths who violate the sanctity of the Sabbath take the
first ordinary steps in a dissolute and dishonest life. An anecdote, on the authority of Captain
Back, shows his harmless character in a striking light.[230] The writer observes--"As an illustration
of the excellent individual to whom it refers, I may be pardoned for introducing it here. It
was the custom of Sir John Franklin never to kill a fly, and though teased with them beyond
expression, especially when taking observations, he would gently desist from his work, and
patiently blow the half gorged intruders from his hands, saying, 'The world is wide enough
for both.' Manfelly (an Indian chief) could not refrain from expressing his surprise that I
should be so unlike the 'old chief' who would not destroy a single mosquito."

The name of Franklin is indissolubly connected with the great problem of modern geography--the
connection of the polar seas with the north pacific ocean. In 1818 he was first employed in
this service, but returned without success. In 1820 he conducted an overland expedition to
the Coppermine River. They completed a journey of 5,550 miles. The narrative of this expedition
excited at the time much admiration, as a rare example of intrepidity, perseverance, and elevated
piety.[231] In 1824 Franklin was entrusted with the charge of another expedition. They were
attacked by the Indians, and the party was saved from destruction by the coolness and judgment
of the leaders: they encountered storms, fogs, and cold, which prevented their reaching their
destination. These efforts considerably enlarged the scientific knowledge of the icy region.
On his return to England in 1843, it was resolved to confide to Sir John Franklin a new effort
to discover the north-west passage. Accompanied by Captain Crozier, he sailed in May, 1845.
The vessels--the Erebus and Terror--were furnished with provisions and artificial fuel for
four years. They were last seen by whalers in Lancaster's Sound.

In 1847 the long absence of Franklin and the 136 persons under his command awakened considerable
alarm. English expeditions, both by land and water, a reward of £20,000 offered by parliament,
and the earnest co-operation of foreign powers, have done all that money, or daring, or affection
could accomplish to solve the mystery of their fate. Though these efforts are not even now
(1852) relinquished, the issue has ceased to be regarded with hope;--except by Lady Franklin,
whose exertions to rouse and prolong the search have excited the sympathy and admiration of
nations.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 228: Narrative of some passages in the History of Van Diemen's Land, during the last
three years of Sir John Franklin's administration of its government.]

[Footnote 229: Franklin's Narrative, p. 21.]

[Footnote 230: Back's Expedition, p. 180. 1836.]

[Footnote 231: Quarterly Review.]

HISTORY OF TASMANIA

FROM 1843 TO 1847.

FROM 1843 TO 1847.

SECTION I.

Sir John Eardley Eardley-Wilmot, Bart., succeeded Sir John Franklin, August 21st, 1843. His
short and troubled administration, although crowded with incident, presents few events of permanent
interest. Charged with the development of a gigantic scheme of penal discipline, founded on
erroneous data, and imperfectly sustained by material resources, he was involved in the discredit
of its failure. The opposition of the colony to his measures he too readily resented as disrespectful
to himself, and thus a long and useful public life was closed in sadness.

Sir Eardley Wilmot received his appointment from Lord Stanley, whose political leadership he
followed in his secession from the whigs, occasioned by the reduction of the Irish church.
During successive parliaments he represented Warwickshire, and for twenty years was chairman
of the quarter sessions of that county,--in England a post of some consequence. He inclined
rather to the liberal than the tory section of the house, and supported most measures favorable
to civil and religious freedom. On the question of negro slavery he was a coadjutor of the
decided abolitionists, and on his motion apprenticeship, a milder form of slavery, was finally
terminated. He contributed papers on prison discipline, and initiated a bill for the summary
trial of juvenile offenders. Thus he appeared not unqualified to preside in a colony where
penal institutions constituted the main business of government, and where many religious opinions
divide the population.

The gazette which announced his appointment contained the nomination of Sir Charles Metcalf
to the governorship of Canada, vacated by Sir George Arthur. An article in the London Times
attacked Sir E. Wilmot with uncommon acrimony, attributed by himself to the influence of private
spleen. He was described as a mere joking justice, accustomed in his judicial office to "poke
fun" at prisoners, destitute alike of talents and dignity, and his character a contrast with
that of the new Canadian governor. This bitter diatribe was published in the colonies, and
was not forgotten in the strife of factions. Metcalf was indeed a governor with whom the widest
comparison would scarcely find an equal. Every Capital he ruled is adorned with his statue,
and when he descended to the dust his tomb was wet with the tears of nations. He consulted
the ministers with the independence of a patriot, and governed the people as one of themselves.

Wilmot landed at a distance from Hobart Town, and delayed his entrance on office to afford
time for a removal of Franklin's household. When he was sworn in the town illuminated, and
the usual excitement of novelty wore the appearance of public welcome.

The open and affable address of the governor attracted the people. He rapidly traversed the
island. The agricultural knowledge he possessed, his promptitude in forming and expressing
opinions, contrasted with the habits and manners of his predecessor. Those who were experienced
in official life foresaw the dangers of a temper so free and of movements so informal. The
opponents of the late governor recommended the neglect of all the distinctions which had limited
intercourse, and some persons, never before seen at government-house, were admitted to the
closet, and boasted their intimacy and influence.

Scarcely had Wilmot entered office, when an exercise of mercy brought him into collision with
one of the judges. Kavanagh, a notorious bushranger, was condemned to death. He had fired on
a settler, whose house he attempted to pillage. In giving sentence the judge remarked that
he had seldom tried a culprit stained with so great an aggregate of crime. Ten minutes before
the time appointed for his execution the governor granted a reprieve. Judge Montagu was indignant,
and those who had suffered by the depredations of the robber shared in his opinion. The press,
in commenting on the commutation, predicted that the culprit would not long escape the scaffold.
He was implicated in the murders of Norfolk Island, and suffered death (1846). Judge Montagu,
shortly after the reprieve, tried four men for a similar crime, and instead of pronouncing
sentence, directed death to be recorded. He stated that the sparing of Kavanagh could only
be justified by the almost total abolition of capital punishment. At a meeting of the Midland
Agricultural Association Wilmot noticed these reflections, and declared that he would never
inflict death in consideration of offences not on the records of the court, and that in this
case robbery only had been proved. He thus early complained of anonymous attacks, and admitted
that in offering these explanations he was out-stepping the line of his situation. Topics of
a far more agreeable nature were suggested by the special business of the day. He dwelt with
great fluency on the advantages of agriculture, and dilated on the importance of independent
tenants and an industrious peasantry. "You," he observed, "are to consider yourselves as the
column of a lofty pillar; but, depend upon it, a tenantry form the pedestal,--a virtuous, moral,
and industrious peasantry the foundation on which that pillar rests. I see around me some of
your largest proprietors, who this day are lords of wastes and princes of deserts; but who,
if the system of tenantry be carried out as fully as it deserves, will become patriarchs; and
the future Russells, Cavendishes, and Percys of the colony may be proud to date their ancestry
from any one of you."[232] This strain of compliment was returned by Mr. Kemp, the oldest of
the settlers,--so many years before distinguished in the deposition of Governor Bligh. He congratulated
the meeting on the appointment of his excellency, whose presence he compared to "the vivifying
rays of the sun after a long cheerless winter, encouraging the ploughman to resume his labors
with fresh spirit."

The prevalence of bushranging, though far less than at an earlier period, induced the midlanders
to project a yeomanry corps. They were to provide weapons, meet for exercise, and always stand
prepared to answer a summons. They proceeded to the choice of a treasurer and secretary--Messrs.
Keach and Leake, Jun. They were, however, informed that the levying of armed men is the prerogative
of the Queen. On reference to the governor, he declined to sanction their incorporation, while
he praised their martial spirit. Bushrangers rarely move in numbers, and a military is not
the kind of power best adapted to suppress them.

On meeting his council for the first time (October 21, 1843), Wilmot expressed his admiration
of the colony, its soil, its climate, and immense resources. He promised to consider the pecuniary
difficulties of the settlers, with a view to their alleviation. Referring to the appointment
of a comptroller-general, the chief officer of the convict department, he declared his cordial
concurrence with the new discipline as a reformatory system; and, noticing the recent arrival
of a bishop, he avowed his preference for the episcopal church, and, in still stronger terms,
his attachment to religious liberty and equality.

The salary of the governor was augmented to £4,000 per annum: the former uncertain but expensive
allowances were withdrawn. Franklin had enjoyed £2,000 per annum, as salary, and the government
houses of Hobart Town, New Norfolk, and Launceston; a farm at New Town, and a large garden
in the domain. The salary of the new governor was given in full discharge of all demands. The
beautiful gardens he determined to throw open to the public.

Having accepted the office of president, Wilmot convened the Tasmanian Society, formed by Franklin,
and presented a series of alterations in its organisation. He proposed that it should consist
of a president, four vice-presidents, and a council of twelve, to be nominated by the governor;
and that at first it should be limited to fifty fellows. The project was distasteful to the
original members of the Tasmanian Society, who objected to the summary increase of their body.
Wilmot proceeded to incorporate those who concurred with his views as "The Horticultural and
Botanical Society of Van Diemen's Land." They were then intrusted with the government garden,
and the appropriation of a grant of £400 per annum, required for its cultivation. The discarded
society complained of the haste of the proposed revolution. They thought past services demanded
a consideration of their wishes. They had received in trust an endowment from Lady Franklin
of some prospective value; they corresponded with men of the first scientific circles; and
they had published a journal which widely extended the physical knowledge and European fame
of this hemisphere. None who are experienced in the causes of political discontent will consider
such trifles without serious effect on the tempers of parties and the peace of rulers.

Wilmot received the government in a condition most unfavorable to his tranquillity. The arrival
of many thousand prisoners had for a time quickened trade, and some months elapsed before they
became competitors for the bread of the free mechanics. The universally low price of labor,
the demand for dwellings, and the closing of a local bank, which liberated small capitals,
occasioned a competition for town allotments, and set all classes to building. But this stimulus
was soon exhausted, and workmen of every grade began to suffer distress. They found hundreds
of passholders working at a price to them, indeed, ample, but on which a family would starve.
The regulations introduced by Lord John Russell discouraged employment of prisoners in the
towns, where they could easily indulge every evil inclination, and where they abated the value
and respectability of labor; but such was the pressure of numbers on the colonial government
that its officers were glad to abandon all reformatory theories to get rid of the crowds which
idled their time and burdened the British treasury. The free operative classes appealed to
the governor for redress. Wilmot replied by appeals to their humanity: he said that many prisoners
of the crown, influenced by bad example, ignorance, and want, had lost their liberty; that
it would be unkind and unjust to obstruct their progress to competence and reformation. These
excuses for a policy which tended to depress honest workmen only convinced them that it was
time to retire from the country. A more powerful class might have shown that the proper office
of mercy is to shorten the duration of a sentence, and not to inflict punishment on unoffending
families of freemen.

A party of colonists, who chose Mr. Gilbert Robertson as their secretary, formed an association
to promote the amelioration of financial embarrassment. They nominated a "central committee,"
to prepare information for the guidance of the government, and to watch over legislation. In
explaining their plans to Wilmot they professed to feel confidence in his liberality, judgment,
and zeal. To this he replied in glowing terms. He told them that during a short residence he
had traversed the colony and acquired a knowledge of its value; that he had projected many
schemes for the improvement of agriculture and the relief of the treasury. He gave strong assurances
both of his expectation of better days and his efforts to hasten them; but then he complained
that the association, by its structure and schemes, depressed his anticipations; that they
proposed to supersede imperial instructions, and to supplant his constitutional advisers. The
objections he offered, and the tone in which they were urged, induced a practical dissolution
of the society--scarcely compatible with regular government.

For the last time in these colonies application was made by the settlers for a law to restrict
the amount of usury. It had been a favorite object for many years. They asserted that the exactions
of capitalists involved the colony in a hopeless struggle. England had, however, abrogated
usury laws, and left the value of money to be determined by the ordinary relations of supply
and demand. To this principle the governor resolved to adhere (1844).

What the law could not effect was produced by a less exceptionable process. The merchants and
professional men addressed the banks, and urged an abatement of interest, then 10 per cent.
for short-dated bills, and 12-1/2 for renewals. They appealed rather to liberality than to
abstract right. This was followed by a reduction in the Van Diemen's Land Bank,--an example
which the other establishments did not readily adopt. Eight per cent. soon, however, became
the highest amount usually exacted in regular transactions.

The difficulties of the agriculturists from the low price of grain, induced them to look for
artificial relief. With too much facility Wilmot gave hopes which he could not realise. The
imposition of a heavy duty on New South Wales tobacco, amounting to prohibition, and that just
as it was reaching considerable perfection, led to the imposition of a duty on our grain. It
was the wish of the Tasmanian settlers to restore free trade between the colonies, and to impose
discriminating duties on the produce of foreign countries; but the harsh and ridiculous system
of colonial government, which discriminated between Australian and Canadian grain, compelled
one British colony to treat another, its next neighbor, as an alien, and that while England
demanded free admittance for English manufactures. The peremptory instructions of Stanley were
conveyed to the local governors in terms of intimidation.[233] They were forbidden to allow
any kindred colony the least advantage over foreigners, or to pass any bill for that purpose,
and were told that any evasion of this restriction would occasion the high displeasure of the
crown. The reason alleged for this interference was that colonies could not be expected to
understand the treaties and trading system of the parent state; as if any treaty should have
hindered a commerce actually not more distinct than the trade between London and Liverpool.
Wilmot warmly espoused the claim of the Australian colonies to share in the privilege of Canada,
in favor of which the duties had been relaxed on colonial grain. Mr. Hutt brought their petitions
before the attention of parliament; but he could not plead a political necessity, and the ministers
were able to resist without the risk of a rebellion. They asserted that the distance made the
concession of no practical value, while it would tend to augment the alarm of the English farmers!
Thus, while they humored the empty fears of their own constituents, they afforded another example
of the futility of colonial petitions which, however just, it is convenient to disregard.

To assist agriculture, the council passed an act interdicting the use of sugar, under certain
conditions, by public brewers. The trade strongly objected to the restriction, as impolitic,
vexatious, and impracticable. Their objections were admitted by the secretary of state, who
quietly observed that he had been advised that sugar could not be considered deleterious. This
is the last attempt at protective legislation.

To benefit the rural interest the governor proposed a grand scheme of irrigation. An eminent
engineer, Major Cotton, was employed to report on the subject, and suggested the detention
of the waters of the vast lakes which overflow from the heights of the western mountains. A
rate to be imposed on the various estates was to discharge the cost. Thus in those seasons
of drought which sometimes occur the lowlands would be made increasingly fertile. The immediate
object--the employment of probation labor at the colonial cost--detracted something from the
charms of the project. Nor did it seem just that the settlers should risk the ultimate cost
of an undertaking they could not limit. Sir E. Wilmot earnestly recommended the scheme to the
home government, but Lord Stanley hesitated until the evils of the probation system enforced
a change, and lessened the labor at the disposal of the crown. Had the men been employed on
a work so popular they would have been withdrawn from the colonial eye, and the interest of
their new labors might have extinguished the prevailing discontent. But while the governor
waited for instructions the men were idle, or employed in useless attempts at cultivation on
barren land, of which the produce rarely defrayed the cost of the implements destroyed.

The charge for police and gaols had always been borne by the legislative council with impatience.
The estimates were accompanied by an annual protest against entailing on the colony any pecuniary
consequence of British crime. But when the convict labor was withdrawn from the roads, and
new taxes demanded, the time arrived for the most decided resistance, and the event proved
that the councillors who refused their consent acted with prudence. The minister himself was
compelled to own at last, that the exaction of twenty shillings per head for police, was unexampled
in civilised governments.

In 1836 Mr. Spring Rice (now Lord Monteagle) took advantage of a considerable local land fund
to throw on the council the police establishment of the colony, occasioned by transportation.
The sum then required (£14,000) was comparatively unimportant, and it was urged that the labor
of convicts employed on public works at the cost of Great Britain, except £4,000 for superintendence,
was a sufficient compensation. But the charge for constabulary and prisons gradually increased
to £36,000. The land fund, after deducting £97,000, expended for emigration, for the support
of aborigines, and the working of the land office, yielded in ten years a surplus of £207,000,
carried to the general revenue; but during this time the charge for police and gaols exceeded
£311,000. The increase of judicial expenses, and especially of witnesses, was proportionately
great; and this last item in one year (1846), although most lighter crimes were disposed of
in a summary way, rose to £6,000. The execution of public works by the crown had been the sole
vindication of these charges. From this arrangement Lord Stanley departed, and in peremptory
terms prohibited a spade to be moved but on payment from the colonial treasury. Thus at a season
of commercial stagnation the benefit of convict labor was withdrawn, while the charges for
police and gaols rose to one-third of the entire revenue of the colony, and in two years and
a-half a debt accumulated to £100,000.

Notwithstanding the obvious injustice of this burden, the treatment of the New South Wales
legislature gave slight hope of redress. Lord Stanley directed Sir George Gipps to obviate
the threatened resistance of that council by hastening pardons to the prisoners, by withdrawing
them from the service of the settlers, and by sending those not otherwise disposable to Van
Diemen's Land. He was forbidden to relieve extreme financial difficulties by drafts on England,
or draw from the military chest, although at the period an immense body of convicts remained
long after transportation had ceased. This disregard of a more powerful colony led the people
of Van Diemen's Land to infer that from a minister so unscrupulous no justice could be expected
while evasion was possible.

Wilmot was deeply embarrassed, but he determined to adhere to the instructions of the secretary
of state, whose distance prevented his perceiving the hopelessness of his project until that
discovery was unavailing. The positive nature of these injunctions left no room for discretion.
The governor was commanded not to adopt any detailed regulations at variance with the scheme
prescribed by the crown, or to depart from its provisions without express authority.[234]

Sir Eardley Wilmot resolved that the utmost extent of taxation should be tried rather than
infringe the orders of Stanley. A bill to raise the duties on sugar, teas, and foreign goods
from 5 to 15 per cent. encountered an earnest but unavailing opposition. This bill was still
more obnoxious from a clause, afterwards abandoned, to levy the duty on the current value of
goods at the market of consumption, instead of export--a mode which taxed all the expenses
of shipment. Mr. Gregson proposed the rejection of an impost required only by the extraordinary
pressure of convictism. Several of the non-official members voted with the governor for the
last time.

A committee of the council had been appointed to ascertain how the expenditure could be reduced
and the revenue augmented. They enumerated various forms in which further taxation might be
practicable. These were proposed by the governor. Auctioneers, pawnbrokers, publicans, butchers,
eating-house keepers, stage-coach and steam-boat proprietors, cabmen, and watermen, were to
be subject to new or increased license fees.

This project aroused the people to an unusual degree. On the day of public meeting[235] a procession
of cabs and waggons, decorated with flags bearing the inscription, "No taxation without representation,"
presented a novelty in colonial agitation. Mr. Kemp, the veteran politician, presided. The
opposition prevailed, and the governor resolved to withdraw the obnoxious measure. It would
be difficult to discern a line beyond which taxation might not pass, if every trade and profession
can be subject to arbitrary imposts levied by a legislature at the mere dictation of the crown.

Referring to this meeting as a triumph which history would report to the latest posterity,
the Courier added--"Rulers will henceforth recoil from the virtuous indignation of the people,
as the reptile recoiled from the touch of Ithuriel's spear." It was supposed by Wilmot that
this not very lucid prediction conveyed a gross and personal insult, and that it attributed
to him the artifices and loathsome habits of the fiend. The private secretary was instructed
to withdraw the subscription of the governor, and to explain the cause of his displeasure.
Such petulance took the colony by surprise. A less experienced politician might have been expected
to disregard a heavier censure; and this conflict with a local editor was noticed by the London
press as a curious instance of official sensibility.

The sheriff refused to call a meeting to consider the condition of the colony, because one
of the objects was to notice the appropriation of the public revenue. This he had been advised
was an interference with the royal prerogative! The friendly tone of his refusal restrained
the wrath it was calculated to excite. It is quite impossible to suppose any branch of politics
more clearly within the sphere of popular remonstrance than the expenditure of the public money
(August, 1845).

Mr. Bicheno, the colonial secretary, who, like the governor, might have been popular in quiet
times, was little qualified for a stormy debate. He announced the most arbitrary notions in
the blandest tones, and asserted that the doctrine of concurrent representation and taxation
was a wild revolutionary idea, exploded by American independence. The revenues he called the
Queen's, and thought it monstrous that any should dispute her right to her own. Though he compared
the parent country to the hen and the colonies to chickens, he could see nothing to disturb
the analogy in a demand for fresh contributions. He asserted that all constitutional history
showed that it was the prerogative of the crown to tax the people, and instanced the Cape--a
conquered province--as an example. He affirmed that customs were not taxes, as the public were
not compelled to use the articles on which they were levied. The prosperity of communities
he asserted rose with the increase of taxation; that the placards posted over the town were
a complete delusion. Taxation and representation--a cry first introduced by Lord Chatham, was,
he said, never adopted by the liberal whigs (August, 1845). Such un-English notions were no
assistance to the cause of the executive, and were distasteful to all who pretended to value
constitutional government.

The ad valorem duties, raised to 15 per cent., for some time produced less than they realised
at five. The licensing scheme being rejected, nothing remained but to reduce the expenditure
or increase the debt. To relieve the revenue and employ the convicts the executive proposed
a road act, and another for lighting and paving Hobart Town. The great objection to these measures
was their design to evade the question at issue between the home government and the colony;--with
many more odious still as recognising a right in a crown appointed legislature either directly
or indirectly to tax the people. Mr. Gregson stated early in the session that he would not
levy a shilling additional until the burdens of police were equitably adjusted. Supported by
Captain Swanston, formerly a staunch adherent of Sir G. Arthur, he successfully moved the rejection
of these bills. Their discussion drew forth many expressions of personal feeling. The governor
declared he would not stay in office one hour did he not believe that Lord Stanley meant fairly
by the colony, or could he not conscientiously act upon his lordship's instructions; and he
begged that all the opprobrium cast on Lord Stanley might be considered equally applied to
himself. He remarked that the opposition had exhibited a spirit "more radical and even Jacobinical"
than he ever had witnessed in parliamentary factions. These reproaches were repelled by Mr.
Gregson, who contended that in resisting unjust exactions for convict purposes he was promoting
the real interests of the colonial government. The governor retorted that with such support
as the honorable member afforded he would readily dispense.

When the estimates for the year were presented (August 20th) the country party insisted on
enquiry, and Mr. Dry proposed the appointment of a committee to ascertain the proportionate
burdens transportation imposed. This motion was rejected by the governor's casting vote. Another,
made for adjournment, to give the members time to investigate the items, met a similar fate.
It was, however, discovered when the estimates were read that they differed from the copy in
the hands of the members. The chief justice supported a second motion for adjournment, to enable
the colonial secretary to correct these discrepancies. On the re-assembling of the council
(25th) the governor stated that considering the determination avowed by the members to refuse
all items for the expenses of convictism, and the general state of popular feeling, he had
resolved to pause, and to await the arrival of expected despatches on the subject of dispute
from Lord Stanley, in reply to his own.

Sir E. Wilmot was sensible of the financial burden inflicted by the convict establishments.
A committee of government officers sat shortly after his arrival, and pointed out the many
and large items to be traced to the prevention and punishment of crime. This report he forwarded
to Lord Stanley. He complained that charges never before thought of were levied by the commissariat,
as well as the full value of convict labor, and insisted that the expences incurred by the
colonists for police ought in fairness to be defrayed by the crown, or that the labor at its
disposal should as formerly be allowed in compensation.[236]

So late as August, 1844, the secretary of state refused to entertain the claim for relief.
He stated that the colony would be obliged to expend a sum nearly equal, although all the convicts
were withdrawn; for their sakes, he said, the island was colonised; they constituted the working
population; and he added that in the military and naval protection, the support of the unemployed
convict, and the capital and cheap labor poured into the colony, a fair proportion of expenditure
was borne by the crown.

Pressed by extraordinary difficulties, Wilmot again[237] urged the injustice of these conclusions.
He complained that not only India, China, and the Cape of Good Hope, but New South Wales, were
pouring in felons of the worst description, who, as pass-holders, occasioned a vast outlay
for the suppression of crime. He told his lordship that for several years the land fund had
totally failed, while the expenses of police and gaols, of judges and witnesses, had risen
to £50,000. At this time the number of arrivals was five thousand annually, sent from every
colony and dependency of the empire, as well as from the United Kingdom. There were between
three and four thousand pass-holders unemployed, 7,000 in private service, 6,000 about to emerge
from the gangs, 8,000 with tickets-of-leave or conditional pardons, and in all more than 30,000
unqualified to quit the island without the consent of the crown.[238]

It is impossible to read these representations without feeling indignant at the nobleman who
suffered the representative of the Queen to struggle with difficulties so manifold and great,--who
left him to the alternative of breaking through positive prohibitions or of incurring popular
distrust and aversion. To this delay the governor owed much of the opposition he suffered,
and the imperial government inconveniences of lasting consequence. Nothing was conceded to
justice--nothing to entreaty; and the secretary of state yielded at last as despotism must
ever yield,--without merit and without thanks.

The whole change in the details of the convict department was marked by a spirit eminently
opposed to the colonial welfare. With singular acuteness and perspicuity Lord Stanley described
the former systems as subject to local influence and subservient to local ends. Every governor,
he alleged, was under a strong bias in favor of expense, as the patron of a multitude of officials.
He stated that the executive council were equally benefited by the wasteful expenditure, either
in their own persons or those of their official brethren, and that every colonist had an interest
in the multiplication of bills on the British treasury. To prevent these abuses, the convict
estimates were thenceforth to be prepared by the colonial secretary, the comptroller-general,
and the commissariat officer, subject to the approval of the secretary of state.

The management of the prisoners being confided to the judgment of the governor, Lord Stanley
deemed the chief cause of its many changes, and its subservience to colonial prosperity. The
deference of the ministers to this discretion he attributed to the unwillingness of the home
office to interfere with a functionary in correspondence with the colonial office, and the
reluctance of the secretary for the colonies to guide a penal system designed for interests
exclusively imperial. Thus, he stated, the governor was practically independent, and had strong
inducements to render the labor of convicts subservient to colonial wealth, and to disregard
the great design--the prevention of crime in Great Britain. He declared that all schemes of
convict management were of colonial origin, and all contemplated local interests as their main
object. To prevent these devices he proposed to retain in the colonial-office the exclusive
management of the details of transportation.[239]

Among the items of convict expense was a charge of £164,000 for rations. This Lord Stanley
considered an extravagant outlay. He deemed it highly improper that in a country where all
the means of subsistence existed in such abundance with an unlimited supply of manual labor,
this charge should remain. He however feared that while the convicts were permitted to labor
on works of colonial utility the local authorities would always find means to increase the
charges for their subsistence (Feb. 28, '43). The treasury concurred in this view, and requested
that explicit instructions might be given to Wilmot and the comptroller-general to prevent
the employment of labor for the colonial benefit, and to devote their utmost efforts to raise
the food on the waste lands of the colony.

The convict department attempted agriculture, and they selected for the experiment cold, damp,
and barren soils. Gardens of a few acres occupied a thousand men: the cleared land was utterly
worthless. Garden seeds were brought into the colonial market, and potatos sold at twenty shillings
which cost the government £10 per ton. Several hundred men idled their time in cultivating
land which did not equal in the aggregate a single farm.[240] The estimated value of all the
articles produced on two stations, Deloraine and Westbury, in 1846, by four hundred men, was
less than £2 per man; while the salaries of their officers were nearly double that sum.[241]

Mr. Montagu, the late colonial secretary, in estimating the cost of the convict department,
presented a calculation £100,000 annually less than the estimate of the officers on the spot.
This difference Lord Stanley set up as proof of the culpable negligence and profligacy of colonial
expense. He considered the body of persons employed in the control of prisoners excessive.
A reduction was therefore enforced, and in the end less surveillance was employed than free
labor usually requires.

To each party of three hundred seven overseers were attached, without constables or other restraint.
The sub-division of these parties in labor left them often to the practical oversight of a
single person, and he an expiree. Thus they were able to make excursions for the purposes of
robbery and pleasure: their clothing tended rather to disguise than distinguish them. As the
terms of their service expired they were discharged in the prison dress, and no one could tell
whether they were or not illegally at large. Escaped prisoners have been known to walk through
bodies of men on the road without challenge. In several instances robberies were committed
on travellers within the precincts of the stations. The enclosures were often merely the common
garden fence. The judges avowed that in passing sentence for crimes they could not punish them
with severity, considering the strong temptations of the men. Remembering the number virtually
and legally at large, the degree of safety, or rather the instances of exemption from pillage,
must be considered almost miraculous. A great portion of minor crimes were not prosecuted,
and a still larger number were undetected; but eight hundred recorded crimes--a scourge to
ten thousand families, and full of terror and danger to all--would not seem extravagant when
divided among thirty thousand prisoners.

The despatches of Wilmot to Lord Stanley described with accurate minuteness the social effects
of the probation system. Those who remember his apparent apathy when those evils were the topics
of colonial complaint will deplore the strange fidelity to his political chief which induced
him to conceal his own sentiments from the colonists. He stated that the territory was inundated
with unemployed prisoners; that no labor being in demand, they must either starve or steal;
that a yearly increasing pauper population, without adding one atom to colonial wealth, would
swell the catalogue of crime and increase the public expense in every form; that the number
out of employment was fearfully great; and that land--cleared, fenced, in complete cultivation,
with houses and buildings--might be bought at the upset price of waste land. To remedy these
evils he proposed the extension of conditional pardons to the Australian colonies, the remission
of the price of crown lands to emigrants, and the letting of allotments at a nominal rental
for seven years to conditionally pardoned men, with a contingent right of purchase.[242]

To all these remonstrances, so far as they affected the colonist, Lord Stanley had a ready
reply. The colony was originally penal, and could claim neither compensation nor relief. He
considered that in emigrating the colonists surrendered at discretion; that they were not entitled
to object to the trebling of their police burdens and to the importation of all instead of
a small part of the convicts of the empire, as was the case up to 1840. His rejoinder was felt
with that bitterness which none can realise who have not known the tyranny of irresistible
despotism. Happily for mankind there is no power above the steady and determined operations
of truth and right. The cruel desertion of the people in the hour of their distress--the scornful
defiance of their complaints, has involved the cabinet of England in difficulties for which
nothing but great sacrifices will fully obviate. No people in this hemisphere will entirely
trust a British minister until the history of Van Diemen's Land is forgotten.

The anticipated relief not having arrived, the governor again assembled the council on the
21st of October. He now proposed several expedients to meet the exigencies of the moment. He
had, unauthorised by the council, borrowed money of a bank. He proposed to stop the forage
allowance of the clergy, and to retain 12-1/2 per cent. of the salaries of the officials. Both
these measures were withstood--the last effectively. The chief justice denied the power of
the council to interfere with his income. When a new set of estimates was offered they were
found to be unintelligible, and an adjournment, to enable the colonial secretary to afford
the necessary information, was proposed by Mr. Dry. This reasonable request was lost by the
governor's casting vote, and several motions with a similar object were defeated in the same
manner. Mr. O'Connor, the non-official member who supported the executive, was absent, and
thus the votes of the official and country party were equal, and the balance was in the governor's
hands.[243] At the next sitting of the council Wilmot proposed to pass the estimates. Ineffectual
efforts to postpone their consideration exhausted all means of evasion, and Mr. Dry moved that
the Appropriation Act should be read that day six months. He expatiated on the injustice of
the system which condemned the colony to the cost of an imperial scheme, and insisted on the
solemn obligation of the council to resist an accumulation of debt which must involve the colony
in ruin. Mr. Gregson followed, and referred to the unavailing representations of Sir G. Arthur,
Sir John Franklin, and Sir E. Wilmot himself, in reference to police expenses, and dwelling
on the evils of the convict system. An adjournment of the debate being moved the governor opposed
it with his deliberative and casting vote, and added that he resisted the motion because it
was only intended to embarrass. The Appropriation Act would then have gone to the third reading,
but the non-official members at once quitted the chamber, and reduced the number below the
legal quorum. On the day following Mr. Gregson appeared at the table and apologised for the
absence of his honorable brethren, who were preparing a protest to present on the morrow. Wilmot
complained of discourtesy, and denounced the opposition as disloyal and unconstitutional. They
asserted that quitting the council chamber was not unusual, and was not a concerted movement,
and resented in decided language the charge of disloyalty,--amounting in sworn councillors
to perjury, if rigorously construed. The governor afterwards explained that he had reference
only to the particular instance, and not to their general intentions.

It had been publicly rumored that rather than allow the Appropriation Act to pass, several
members had resolved to resign. Captain Swanston, less prominent in opposition, waited on the
governor, and earnestly advised him to forward another set of estimates, prepared by Captain
Swanston, for the approval of the secretary of state. He warned him that should he persevere
a rupture would inevitably follow. In this interview the governor expressed his determination
to proceed. He forgot, it would seem, some of those forms of civility which no man can safely
neglect, and Captain Swanston left him with a sense of personal affront,--an immedicable wound.[244]

In this temper the council met on the 3rd of October. Mr. Gregson called the attention of the
members to a question submitted to Mr. Francis Smith, a barrister: Whether, as chairman of
a committee, the governor had a deliberate and casting vote, and whether the quorum required
by law at a meeting of council was requisite in committee; and thus whether the estimates were
legally passed through the committee, the numbers present being less than one third, and the
governor giving his double vote. Mr. Smith gave his opinion that the estimates were in law
rejected instead of carried; but the chief justice considered the sitting of committee merely
a convenient method to sift beforehand items afterwards to receive a legal sanction in the
council. The attorney-general without notice was unprepared to give an opinion, and a motion
of Mr. Gregson for delay was lost. The colonial secretary then moved the third reading of the
obnoxious bill, when Mr. Dry rose to read a minute, signed by the members in opposition, objecting
to the proceedings. This being rejected as irregular, Mr. Gregson proposed that the third reading
should be delayed that the members dissenting might bring forward other estimates. In urging
this motion he rebutted the "disloyal" imputation, and referred the governor to the unity existing
in the country party in proof that inevitable necessity alone had prompted the co-operation
of persons hitherto adverse. This motion being lost--before the Appropriation Act could be
carried--the opposition quitted the council. Those remaining did not constitute a quorum, and
the legislative session was abruptly terminated. The Gazette of November the 4th announced
that Charles Swanston, Michael Fenton, John Kerr, William Kermode, Thomas G. Gregson, and Richard
Dry, Esquires, had resigned their seats.

The obligation of the official members of the council to vote with the governor on all government
questions had been long before decided. The non-official were only bound by their oaths to
assist in all measures necessary for the good of the colony, but the nature of their powers
and the proper mode of their exercise were subjects of dispute. Wilmot maintained that they
were assisting in "a council of advice" on subjects submitted to their judgment, and were not
qualified to question the general policy of the executive. All beyond a simple aye or no he
deemed usurpation. Thus when they demanded papers, called for committees, and obstructed obnoxious
measures by the artifices of parliamentary debate, they were charged with forgetting the duties
of their office. These gentlemen, however, maintained that it was their duty to hold the executive
in check on behalf of the people, and that whatever was not abstracted from their supervision
by specific laws was proper for their consideration. The governor claimed a deliberate and
casting vote; and thus one non-official member, by concurring with the executive, or even by
abstaining from voting, neutralised the voice of the rest. The official members had no discretion
allowed. Lord Stanley had ruled that, choosing to assume relations disqualifying them to vote
with the governor, they were perfectly free to do so; but having done so, they could not retain
their employment. He alleged that there would be an end of official subordination, and that
the public service would be brought into serious discredit by allowing a different course.
He admitted that exceptions might occur, but their force was left to the judgment of the governor.[245]
This decision reduced the official debates to a mere pantomime, and a seven-fold vote would
have better expressed the real character of the legislature than the disguise of separate suffrages.
The chief justice was alone independent.

Having resigned their office, the six sent a letter of explanation to Lord Stanley. In summing
up their complaints they asserted that they were called on to vote an expenditure the colony
could not bear,--to anticipate a revenue higher than the customs department calculated on receiving;
that they were denied information, although they were bound to deliberate; that they were expected
to augment an alarming debt, and, when crime was increasing, to diminish police protection;
that they were told by the governor he would carry the estimates by his casting-vote, before
they refused to pass or had examined them; that the governor claimed power to borrow and spend
without legislative consent; and finally, that discussion and enquiry were denounced as factious,
unconstitutional, and disloyal: under these circumstances they resigned their seats, as the
only open course, and submitted their conduct to the judgment of the Queen.

The opposition to the measures of Wilmot could not be in every instance justified if separately
considered. But the colony discovered in the governor an inflexible determination to carry
out the system of probation under the instructions of Lord Stanley. It was not possible to
resist the secretary of state, the chief aggressor. The imperious tenor of his despatches taught
the people that mere remonstrance would be unavailing. They could only arrest his attention
by involving his agents in embarrassment. Repeated motions for the attainment of the same object
are certainly incompatible with legislative order. A small party might retard the public business,
and gain no good end by delay; but the exact line between fair and factious opposition is not
easily discovered and can be often only ascertained by the result. In this instance the object
was clearly expressed in a rejected resolution:--"This council do decline voting the sums stated
in the estimates laid on the table for the payment of the judicial, police, and gaol establishments
during the ensuing year, as far as the expenses of the convict department with respect to those
items are incurred. At the same time they desire to place on record an expression of regret
that they should, by a sense of duty, be compelled to adopt any measure likely even temporarily
to embarrass his excellency's government."[246]

The cause of "the patriotic six," as they were called, was eagerly espoused by the colony.
To supply the vacancies occasioned by their retirement was the labor of weeks. The governor
defended himself from the charge of despotism, and declared that he would never interrupt the
freedom of debate or attempt to force the compliance of the council. The opposition press held
up to scorn those disposed to accept a nomination, and gentlemen who did so were assailed with
scandalous abuse,--so easily is the noblest cause degraded by its friends. A more suitable
expression of popular feeling was given on the return of Mr. Dry to his native town. He was
escorted by a large concourse of people and with all the usual tokens of public esteem. The
father of Mr. Dry was exiled during the political troubles of Ireland in the last century,
and after a respectable career attained considerable wealth. The son, the first legislator
chosen from the country-born, the colonists saw with pleasure consecrate himself to the cause
of his native land. Mr. Gregson, the leader of the opposition, was honored in a more substantial
form. A body of his admirers, by contributions of large amounts, raised a testimonial in the
shape of 2,000 guineas, and plate with a suitable inscription. On no previous occasion had
public sympathy so attended political controversy, and never was the legislative freedom of
the country more earnestly desired.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 232: Agricultural Dinner, October 18, 1843.]

[Footnote 233: Despatch, June 28, 1843.]

[Footnote 234: Despatch, No. 34, 1843.]

[Footnote 235:

NO TAXATION!

A meeting will be held at the Theatre.

Auctioneers, rise at our bidding. Pawnbrokers, pledge the public your interest. Butchers, show
your pluck. Publicans, prove your spirit. Stage-coachmen, drive on. Cabmen, make a stand. Carters,
put your shoulders to the wheel. Eating-house keepers, support the constitution. Boatmen, a
long pull, a strong pull, and a pull altogether.

God save the Queen!

August 6, 1845.]

[Footnote 236: Despatch. December 5, 1843.]

[Footnote 237: January 24, 1845.]

[Footnote 238: Despatch, Jan. 31, 1845.]

[Footnote 239: Correspondence, January 5, 1843.]

[Footnote 240: Mr. Maclean's Report, 1844.]

[Footnote 241: Dr. Hampton's Report.]

[Footnote 242: Despatch, January, 1845.]

[Footnote 243: Mr. O'Connor, however, had protested against the police expenses in the following
terms:--"Because, were this not a penal colony, one-third of its present police force would
be adequate to its protection. I therefore do not consider that in common justice the colonial
government ought to be required to defend themselves, at their own expense, against the aggression
of convicts sent hither principally for the benefit of the mother country" (July, 1844).]

[Footnote 244: Letter of Captain Swanston to Lord Stanley.]

[Footnote 245: Despatch to Sir G. Gipps, Jan. 1st, 1845.]

SECTION II.

The development of the new convict system gradually disclosed its adverse character, and excited
general dissatisfaction and alarm. The press warned the people that an attempt to change the
whole aspect of the colony, from a free to a mere prison community, could only be resisted
by instant measures. Abolition of transportation was spoken of, although as a contingency rather
than an object desirable; and a few only of the colonists were anxious to speed that event.
Among these was Mr. Pitcairn, a solicitor of Hobart Town, a gentleman never before prominent
in politics, but eminently fitted to lead the community on this question. The first petition
of a series unexampled in number was drawn up by him, and offered to the colonists for signature.
All its allegations were supported by documentary evidence, drawn from the public records.

The location of the gangs exposed them every moment to public observation. A frightful sketch
of their distribution was drawn by the author of the petition. "If," said he, "you look at
the last map of Van Diemen's Land (Mr. Frankland's), you will see, at the entrance of D'Entrecasteaux's
Channel, South Port. Here there are 500 men. Above, at Port Esperance, 400 men. Above this,
along the banks of the Huon, the farmers begin. At Port Cygnet, up the Huon, there are 350
men; proceeding up the channel, you come to Oyster Cove, 250; Brown's River (just above Worth
West Bay and five miles from Hobart Town), 500. Taking now the main road from Hobart Town to
Launceston (the lands on each side being all settled, fenced, and improved), you will see Glenorchy
(eight miles from Hobart Town), 150 men; Bridgewater (twelve miles), 100; Cross Marsh (thirty
miles), 100; Jericho (forty miles), 100; Oatlands (fifty miles), 180; Ross (seventy miles),
120; and Cleveland (86 miles), 250. At Perth (one hundred miles from Hobart Town and nineteen
from Launceston), there was another gang, which was recently withdrawn. Leaving the main road,
there are at the Broad Marsh, 240 men; at Fingal, 400; at Buckland, 250; at Jerusalem, 500;
at St. Mary's, 300; at Westbury, 200; at Deloraine, 300; at the Mersey, 200. In all, twenty
gangs, comprising 5500 men."

The petition this statement sustained desired the most moderate changes:--the reduction of
the number transported to Van Diemen's Land to the standard of 1840; the amelioration of the
discipline; the relief of the settlers from the expense occasioned by the presence of prisoners;
and the gradual and total abolition of transportation. It was not adopted at a public meeting,
but was published in several newspapers, and deliberately signed by those who admitted its
facts and joined in its prayer. Upwards of 1,700 persons attached their names, including six
non-official councillors, forty-one magistrates, and many other persons of influence.

The committee who took charge of the petition requested the governor would testify to the truth
of its allegations and the respectability of the petitioners. In few words he promised compliance.
He accompanied the petition with a despatch generally hostile to the object and unfriendly
to the character of the subscribers, whom he described as men habitually factious, and who
attributed their difficulties to any cause but the right. He asserted that their colonial property
was trifling, and that they were encumbered with debt. He ascribed their discontent to insolvency,
and their embarrassment to extravagance and speculation. He disputed most of their statements--distinguished
between them and the more respectable majority against them--and stated that the number of
signatures was due to the indolent facility with which such documents were signed. This despatch
(August 1, 1845) was printed for the use of parliament, and soon came into the hands of the
colonists. The absence of constitutional channels for the expression of their dissatisfaction
led them to a measure which would otherwise be deemed an extreme one. Sir E. Wilmot was the
patron of the Midland Agricultural Association, a body including much of the wealth and influence
of the colony. They were convened by certain of the members, and the obnoxious despatch was
laid before them. An animated and indignant debate terminated in the removal of Wilmot from
his place as their patron. No prudent colonist would desire to see this precedent often followed.
The distinction between a governor as the head of the social circle and as the chief of a political
body will be more readily apprehended when his power shall be less absolute, and his secret
advice no longer over-ride the wishes and interests of the people.

Having filled up the vacancies in the legislative council, Sir E. Wilmot called them together.
It appeared that money had been provided and appropriated, and a pledge given to the bank to
confirm the contract in the council. It was intended to issue debentures, and thus settle out-standing
accounts. Messrs. Reed and Hopkins offered to this scheme a decided opposition, and being unsuccessful,
they resigned their seats.

The English government at length agreed to pay £24,000 per annum towards the police expenditure,
but at the same time excepted the waste lands of the island from the general system. The land
fund, elsewhere given up for the benefit of the colony, was assumed by the lords of the treasury.
It was contemplated to employ convicts in clearing and cultivating, and by the sale of land
to indemnify the crown for the outlay. The governor was authorised by the secretary of state
to allot portions of land to ticket-of-leave holders,--a measure offensive to the settlers
in general, and found to be impracticable.

The legislative council passed several acts of great colonial consequence. The Abolition of
Differential Duties Bill (July, '46) exacted the 15 per cent, ad valorem on colonial commerce,
in obedience to the policy of ministers. Thus the inter-colonial trade was loaded with burdens
of great severity, and in many instances it was cheaper to send raw material to London and
import English, than to exchange colonial manufactures. The measure was welcomed by some sheep-holding
members as a tax on Port Phillip sheep, but the government disclaimed any other object than
the increase of the revenue. A heavy retaliatory rate was then imposed by the New South Wales
legislature. They however addressed their governor to obtain, if possible, a disallowance of
the exactions of Wilmot. Messrs. Dunn, Orr, and Stieglitz entered their protest against the
bill, and avowed the principles of free trade.

A bill for electing commissioners of paving and lighting for the city of Hobart passed the
council (August, '46), and although disliked as an indirect scheme of taxation, was not unpopular.
The first election under it occasioned a keen competition and considerable excitement. It was
the first instance of representation, but the bill made no provision for a scrutiny, and the
returning officer declared the poll against the protests of the defeated candidates. Many fictitious
votes had swollen the numbers of their antagonists. The commissioners sat for some months,
and gave exemplary attention to their duties; but when the time came for rating the city, the
defect of their election appalled them. This objection was long foreseen. An election without
a scrutiny might not be founded on one valid vote. The government, unwilling to admit the defect
of the bill, did not attempt to reform its details, and at length it fell into disuetude.

A measure of still greater ultimate importance was enacted by the council, intended "to restrict
the increase of dogs." A heavy tax was imposed on the keepers of this indispensable protector
of house and fold. The multitude running about the streets was felt to be a nuisance, and the
destruction of flocks required some check; but the frame-work of the bill was objectionable,
and the charge excessive. It will be seen hereafter that the tax occasioned the most serious
disputes.

The administration of Sir E. Wilmot was, however, suddenly brought to a close. Reports, forwarded
by Mr. Forster, and adopted by the governor, extolled the outlines of Lord Stanley's system,
while events were constantly occurring which, amply sustained by respectable testimony, demonstrated
its sad consequences. Evils of a serious nature were extensively prevalent,--some, inseparable
from every scheme of penal discipline, others aggravated by the excessive dimensions of the
probation system, and not a few the result of the failure of demand for labor. The worst effects
of sensuality were the most alarming feature of the system, but even they were probably only
more flagrant because the extent of transportation gave them a wider range. Remedial measures
demanded an outlay and inspection which the instructions of the home government had prohibited
in language the most distinct. The ministers, having tied up the governor's hands, complained
that he had carried economy to a pernicious extent, and in reporting the state of the prisoners,
had passed over important questions. But those who examine the despatches of Wilmot with care
will be compelled to question the accuracy of these complaints. There is scarcely an evil which
the progress of the scheme unfolded that he did not admit and illustrate. These evils he thought
partly accidental and partly inevitable in all penal schemes; but still he maintained that,
with all its defects, the probation system, as such, was the best ever devised by the British
ministry. Lord Stanley indeed stated that in "five reports from Captain Forster and seventeen
despatches from Wilmot, he had either received no intelligence or that their remarks were casual,
slight, and few." Thus at the end of three years he found himself destitute of any clear understanding
in reference to the conclusions which Mr. Forster, as the immediate agent, or the governor,
as the chief superintendent, must have formed respecting the soundness of the principles or
the wisdom of the plans which both had been called upon to administer (September, '45). It
was thus apparent that the colonial-office held the governor responsible not only for obedience
to positive instructions, but for their results; and that, in the event of a sacrifice being
required, the officers on the spot would be devoted: and so it happened.

In closing the session (September, 1845) Sir E. Wilmot announced his recall. Although not usual
then to address the council, he stated that he could not permit the members to disperse without
acknowledging their assistance. A delusion for a time might expose a public man to popular
injustice; but however misjudged, either during his life-time or after death, his character
would require no other vindication than truth would afford. He informed them that his recall
was not occasioned by his differences with the late members, but was ascribed to an imputed
neglect of the moral and religious welfare of the prisoners; and he added, that the memory
of their kindness would remain with him during the short remainder of his life.

Mr. Gladstone, who had received the seals of office, conveyed to Wilmot the notice of his removal.
The despatch is a singular example of its author's mental habits. While he complained that
the governor's statements were obscure, he gave his own views in odd and scarcely intelligible
terms. Thus, the governor had adverted to the moral condition of the convicts "in a manner
too little penetrating:" he had not made it a point of his duty "to examine the inner world
of their mental, moral, and spiritual state." Mr. Gladstone charged him with neglecting the
vices of the stations--an error in judgment so serious as to render his removal imperative.
These whimsical terms of reprobation excited universal astonishment. Practical men felt that
the knowledge of the thirty thousand prisoners except by their conduct, to be ascertained by
collating statistics, was rather more difficult than the hopeless task of similar investigations
in ordinary life. The English press, with some truth and bitterness, described such demands
as an encouragement of hypocrisy and religious pretence. No wise or good man will discredit
religious teaching, but all such will look with suspicion, if not dread, and even disgust,
on the statistics of prison piety--generally false and designing, in proportion as it is loud
and ostentatious. The defects of the governor as a legislator were not taken into account.
Mr. Gladstone indeed attempted to balance with much precision the merits of the patriotic six.
He admitted that advice and assistance to the Queen might sometimes take the form of strenuous
opposition to the executive. He denied the distinction between the offices of an elective and
of a nominee legislator--between a council of advice and a representative legislature. He doubted
whether Wilmot had properly calculated the difficulties which would follow the passing of the
estimates, or the sympathy which the six would receive from the people. He censured mildly
the accusation of disloyalty, but at the same time he stated the quarrel with the six was in
no degree the cause of the recall.

In his last address to the council Wilmot alluded to the benign influence of time on a slandered
reputation. This was soon after explained. Mr. Secretary Gladstone had accompanied the recall
with a private letter which stated that rumors reflecting on the governor's moral character
had reached the colonial-office, of a nature to hinder his future employment. Nothing specific
was stated, and no clue to enquiry given. Rumors had been long current, and they were spread
with activity. The Atlas, a Sydney journal, compared the governor to the tyrant of Capreæ,
and referred to his private habits with expressions of disgust. Remarks of a similar tendency
appeared in a London periodical. It stated that the conduct of Wilmot excluded the respectable
inhabitants of Hobart from his society, and made it impossible for ladies to enter his house.
This was instantly rebutted by Sir John Pedder and other official persons, who declared their
entire disbelief in these charges.

Wilmot conjured Mr. Gladstone to state the time, place, and circumstances, the names of his
accusers, and the exact nature of their imputations. In reply he observed that the persons
who mentioned these rumors did not profess to support their credit by any statement of particulars,
but to found them on general notoriety. He added that it "was not in his power to convey what
he had not received." In the House of Commons a fuller explanation was afterwards given, in
a discussion raised by Mr. Spooner, a Warwickshire member. It was then stated that the authors
of the report were persons in the service of the crown, both in England and in the colony,
and its effect, that the accused was living in scarcely concealed concubinage with several
women. These preposterous imputations melted away the moment they were touched. Sir Robert
Peel, an old neighbor of Wilmot, was highly displeased with the interference of Mr. Gladstone,
and pronounced the charges unworthy of belief. The eldest son of Wilmot appealed to Earl Grey
for a formal vindication, but he declined expressing an opinion, although earnestly pressed;
and excused himself by alleging that, independently of this charge, there was ample justification
of the recall. It would have been no great stretch of generosity had a minister admitted that
rumors set up as a bar to employment were no longer barriers to the confidence of the crown.
Mr. Chester, a brother of Lady Wilmot, transmitted an address[247] presented to Sir Eardley
to the Bishop of Tasmania, for his remarks. He replied he could not tell to what reports it
alluded, and could not contradict them; but that rumors of the kind had fallen under his observation
which he had proved to be groundless: charges had been whispered, but none had been substantiated
(May, '47).

The reports in disparagement of Wilmot originated in the freedom of his address--perfectly
innocent in itself, but liable to misconstruction. The credit they received depended entirely
on the party sympathies of the listener, and they grew as they went. No one, however, attached
much importance to them on the spot. Mr. Gladstone was condemned for entertaining them. He
seems more worthy of censure for his indefinite method of stating their nature and the authority
on which they rested. The moral character of a governor is of moment to a colony, and a just
consideration in his appointment; but when assailed it should certainly have all the protection
of a full and open enquiry.

No governor ever was more unfortunate in his political position. He could only tax and restrain.
There was nothing in his gift. To the substantial difficulties of the people around him he
was unable to offer more than those general assurances which often exasperate rather than console.
The state of religious parties increased his disquiet. He had to adjust the claims of churches
to spiritual authority. In declining to erect ecclesiastical courts Wilmot not only gratified
many, but he followed the direction of his legal advisers.

Sir Eardley Wilmot, like most governors, considered himself the servant of the crown, restrained
in his discretion by absolute and specific instructions. Had Lord Stanley acted with prudence
he would have left much to Wilmot's judgment; but just before he had dilated with vast perspicacity
on the tendency of governors to act in behalf of the colonists, to forget imperial interests,
to misapply the funds and pervert the labor belonging to the crown. The precision of his injunctions
left no alternative but to obey. Had Wilmot at once declared the impracticability of Lord Stanley's
schemes he might have been recalled, but the responsibility of an utter failure would have
rested with his chief. The interested reports of his subordinate officers unfortunately enabled
him to hold out hopes of success which were never realised and to furnish an excuse for his
condemnation. The governor was impatient of contradiction. He had been accustomed to debate;
but the sarcasm which falls harmless on the floor of St. Stephen's Chapel, in a colony cuts
to the bone. He forgot that the head of a government can hardly say too little of men or measures.
In a conflict of words, to an executive chief victory and defeat are alike pernicious.

The usual order had been given that the governor, during his residence in the colony, should
enjoy the complimentary distinctions of office. It was commonly understood that his stay would
be prolonged; but he died soon after his retirement (Feb. 3, 1847), in the sixty-fourth year
of his age. The treatment he had received from the colonial-office, and his death far from
the honored sepulchre of his fathers and the scenes of his early political fame, produced a
general sentiment of regret. All the houses of business showed marks of mourning. A public
funeral, attended by the administrator and the newly-arrived governor, was thronged by the
citizens. It had been officially arranged that, except the ministering priest, the clergy of
all denominations should walk in their several classes, but in one body, and the archdeacon,
the moderator, and the vicar-general, as representatives of the three endowed churches, abreast.
The Anglican clergy evaded this plan by stepping up before the coffin. When, however, the bearers
were in motion, the catholic priests, by a rapid evolution, shot a-head of the procession.
An ornamented Gothic tomb was erected in St. David's burial-ground to the memory of Sir Eardley
Wilmot by subscription. It stands near the highway. His remains were interred close to the
tomb of Collins.

Sir John Eardley Eardley-Wilmot was descended from the ancient family of Eardley of Audely,
Staffordshire. He was grandson of Wilmot, lord chief justice of the court of common pleas--a
judge celebrated for justice and piety. Sir E. Wilmot was twice married,--first to Elizabeth,
daughter of Dr. Parry, of Bath; and afterwards to Elizabeth, daughter of Sir R. Chester, of
Bush Hall, Staffordshire.

Charles Joseph Latrobe, Esq., Superintendent of the Port Phillip District, and subsequently
first governor of that territory, now called Victoria, superseded Sir E. Wilmot (October 13,
1846). During his short stay as "administrator" he was employed in a careful scrutiny of the
probation department. In performing this difficult duty he displayed exemplary activity and
decision. He resolved to remove every officer chargeable with incapacity or neglect, and thus
many were dismissed. This promptitude exposed him to imputations of harshness; but although
it is probable he did not wholly escape errors of judgment, the chief acts of his administration
were amply vindicated by the facts he saw. The opinions he expressed sustained the colonial
impressions respecting the convict system. While he suggested many improvements in its details,
he concurred with the general wish for its extinction. Mr. Latrobe never met the legislative
council; and his government being limited to the established routine, left nothing to record.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 246: Motion proposed October 28, 1845.]

[Footnote 247: The following is the address, to which 250 names were appended:--"To Sir J.
E. E. Wilmot, Bart.--We the undersigned, inhabitants of Van Diemen's Land, having heard that
your recall has been influenced by reports injurious to your moral character, during your administration
of the government of this colony, deem it to be a duty which we owe to truth and justice to
express our unqualified contradiction of those reports, and we feel the more imperatively called
upon to do so, from the fact of many of us having differed in opinion upon various measures
of your government. Upon the occasion of your retirement into private life, we have to assure
you that you carry with you our best wishes for your future welfare."]

HISTORY OF TASMANIA.

FROM 1847 TO 1852.

FROM 1847 TO 1852.

SECTION I.

Sir William Thomas Denison, Knight, Captain of the Royal Engineers, presented his commission,
January 26th, 1847. He had been employed in the dock-yards, and in the survey of important
public works. His eminent abilities in a department connected with the employment of prisoners,
not less than his respectable connexions, led to his nomination. His professional habits had
not qualified him equally for civil affairs; but the chief object proposed by the minister,
Mr. Gladstone, was the better disposal of prison labor, and the more effectual control of the
convicts. Sir William entered on his office with less acclamation than usual. The changes had
been too rapid and unfortunate to encourage much enthusiasm.

Before his embarkation the secretary of state instructed Sir W. Denison to arrange the dispute
with the late councillors, and the claims of the gentlemen who occupied their places after
their resignation. He was informed that the conduct of both sets of legislators had received
the royal approbation. It was left to his discretion to select six out of the whole number
to complete the council. They were summoned to the government-house to hear the minister's
decision, and were requested to decide among themselves who should be honored with a seat.
This experiment failed. An altercation ensued, and some quitted the conference. The "six" adhered
to each other, and Sir W. Denison ultimately declared the appointments of Wilmot were disallowed,
and re-appointed the "patriotic six." The gentlemen rejected were advised that they held their
office until superseded by commands under the sign-manual. In this opinion the chief justice
concurred; but, pursuing the scrutiny, it was found that some nominations of Wilmot had been
informal, the instrument not stating to whom they succeeded. Their claims being quashed by
this discovery, the "patriotic six" were again appointed in succession to each other,--a transposition
required by the law. At this stage, however, Mr. Orr, who entered the council some time after
the rupture, produced his appointment, which, unlike certain others, was expressed in the legal
form. Thus again all the previous proceedings were quashed; and the governor, unable to unravel
the difficulty, dismissed the council, to await instructions from Downing-street, or a warrant
for the nominees under the sign-manual of the Queen (July, 1847). Thus during 1847 there was
no legislature sitting, but at length the Gazette announced that the Queen had reinstated the
original six (1848).

It has been seen that under the government of Sir E. Wilmot an act was passed to restrict the
increase of dogs, and another levying 15 per cent. duties. The owners of dogs were required
to take out a license, and the proceeds of the tax were carried to the general revenue. Some
of the settlers never complied with this ordinance, and others paid under protest. According
to the opinion of several lawyers the council by this enactment had exceeded its powers. The
act of parliament by which the council was constituted contained a provision to the effect
that a tax should be levied only for local purposes, "to be distinctly and particularly stated
in the body of the bill." It was contended that the restriction was violated, since the Dog
Act contained no specific appropriation, and the amount was carried to the general revenue.
The government, willing to avoid the trial of this point, did not hasten to enforce the penalty.
It was understood that Judge Montagu had not obtained a license for dogs on his premises, and
Mr. Morgan, then editor of the Britannia, announced to the government that he was an owner
of dogs, that he had paid no license fee, and intended to pay none. The chief constable was
directed to recover the penalties. Mr. Morgan being fined, appealed to the quarter sessions,
and then to the supreme court. The judges, having heard the arguments of counsel, declared
that the Dog Act imposed a tax and exceeded the powers of the council. They therefore annulled
the decision of the inferior courts (Nov. 22, 1847).

The views which dictated this judgment affected a more important act--the Differential Duties.
Several merchants paid these charges under protest, and entered their suit for recovery. A
revenue of £20,000 per annum was thus in peril. It was stated by the governor and crown lawyers
that the judges themselves had passed the lawful limits of their jurisdiction, unsettled the
whole body of colonial law, encouraged opposition to the government, and exposed its agents
to vexatious prosecutions. The governor was determined to resist their judgment. The warrants
for the members of the council had not arrived. Thus recourse to the legislature was impracticable,
and the most obvious remedy was the removal of the judges, and the substitution of others,
whose opinions were known to agree with the executive. The judges were charged, therefore,
with a neglect of duty in omitting, as authorised by the law, to certify illegality in the
Act prior to its enrolment; and by permitting the question of an act of council, they were
said to override the legislature.[248]

Pending this dispute, a creditor of Mr. Justice Montagu sued him for £200. The privilege of
his office presented a legal obstacle to the suit. This being decided by the chief justice,
the creditor applied to the governor for relief. Mr. Montagu alleged an understanding, which
in equity released him from immediate liability. The governor charged him with perverting the
protection of his office, to defeat his creditors, and amoved him. Mr. Horne, the attorney-general,
who framed the acts repudiated by the judges, was appointed to succeed Judge Montagu, and it
became a question whether his opinion would send the merchants out of court. The registrar
of the supreme court was called before the executive council, and questioned on the point.
He stated that in the event of a division of opinion on the bench a verdict for the plaintiff
would stand. To the suspension of the chief justice the executive council were opposed, and
Sir Wm. Denison therefore requested the judge to relieve the government by asking leave of
absence. To this he replied in terms suited to the respectability of his character. "Were I,"
said his honor, "to accept your excellency's proposal, I should, it appears to me, be for ever
after degraded, and, ipso facto, render myself unworthy of holding the lowest office or employment
which it is in her Majesty's power to bestow on a subject."[249] At this stage of the proceedings
the warrant constituting the legislative councillors reached the governor, and the opinion
of the chief justice was of less moment to the executive.

It now remained for the governor to annul either the laws opposed to the provisions of the
parliamentary act, which declared the taxing clauses illegal, or to subvert those restrictions
by declaring them inoperative. He chose this last course. The Doubts Bill declared that an
ordinance once enrolled, whatever its provisions, or however repugnant to common law or parliamentary
acts, should be held binding on the court; and although its rejection was proposed by the chief
justice and five other members, it passed the legislative council.

That the "Doubts Bill," so called, was inconsistent with the limitations of the council, has
been virtually determined by a retrospective clause in the recent constitutional act, which
cures the defect of these taxing clauses, and takes the question of legality from the future
judgment of the court. By the act of 9 Geo. IV., sec. 83, the governor possessed powers sufficiently
ample to pass, without notice or delay, any measure, and to adhere to its provisions in a pressing
emergency; but the prohibition of taxes, for all but strictly local purposes, was peremptory
and explicit.

An instance of rapid legislation contemplated by the act, occurred (1843) when Dr. Turnbull
held the office of sheriff. More cautious than his predecessor, he closely examined his commission,
and discovered that the seal of the colony had been attached, and not that of the governor,
as required by the charter of justice. This error had been made in successive commissions for
many years. Every execution--criminal or civil--had been therefore illegal. At one sitting
of the council the act of indemnity was passed, and all proceedings affected by the mistake
were declared valid. The propriety of this promptitude was indisputable.

The chief justice left the representation of his conduct to the governor. His treatment was
the subject of keen censure in the commons; and by an unpublished despatch--the nature, not
the terms of which transpired--Sir Wm. Denison was informed, and through him, the chief justice,
that his conduct to this judge was decidedly reprehended by the crown. Mr. Horne's appointment
and the amoval of Mr. Montagu were confirmed. Mr. Justice Montagu was an acute, eloquent, and
impartial judge, but passionate and eccentric. His imprudence exposed him to a proceeding which,
in the circumstances, it is difficult to approve, and, on general principles, not easy to condemn.
The chief justice stood still higher in public estimation. For nearly thirty years he occupied
a station of awful responsibility with a reputation unsullied, in a court where every variety
of legal knowledge has been in demand and a vast amount of toil endured. Among the blessings
which the British constitution bestows foremost of all is the freedom of the judgment-seat;
and few political faults are less capable of palliation than a deliberate attempt to subject
a judge to the influence of the executive.

A minute addressed to the legislative council charged the merchants with forgetting the duty
they owed to society, when they offered resistance to the tax. They, however, maintained that
every illegal demand is spoliation, and claimed a right to protect themselves and the public
from its operation. Fifteen hundred persons signed a petition deprecating the interference
of the executive with the supreme court. They asserted their conviction that the removal of
Judge Montagu was occasioned by his decision on the Dog Act, and the desire to replace him
by a more pliant judge. These various remonstrances had no effect on the ministers, and the
entire course of the governor was approved, except the attempted coercion of the chief justice.
The position of the government was one of considerable embarrassment. It was the unquestionable
right of those affected to oppose the execution of illegal ordinances; but no blame would have
rested with the governor had he amended them without removing the land-marks of the colonial
constitution.

A minute acquaintance with colonial history would justify the belief that appeal to Downing-street
against the conduct of governors is utterly futile. When the dispute is between persons high
in office the established policy does not predicate the result; but when a mere colonist complains
he will find no precedent in Australian experience to cheer him in his task. Gross instances
of oppression have not infrequently occurred; but in the Australian journals of half a century
no example is recorded of a governor's recall on such grounds, or of such a censure on his
conduct as might influence the habits of colonial rulers. An opposite course would be inconvenient--perhaps
dangerous. As a choice of evils, it is better that the colonists should despair of redress
than to encourage the discontented to harrass the representative of the crown. A result so
invariable, however, proves that a colonial-office cannot protect the Australian people. This
futility of appeal is more striking when the local authorities are protected by a laborious
despatch writer. The subtle arrangement of facts and inferences suggests without appearing
to dictate the judgment of the office. These papers first fall into the hands of subordinate
officials, who feel a natural antipathy to colonists, whose established character is turbulent,
rapacious, and democratic. In the multiplicity of business, comprehending the affairs of forty
colonies, the responsible minister can know little of details, and that little he must rapidly
forget. Thus, when a question is proposed, he asks time to refresh his memory. A pungent passage
or epithet, wholly irrelevant to the real merits of the dispute, is drawn from these documents.
It was thus when the quarrel between the executive and judges was debated in the house. The
minister, having read in a despatch that the decision of the judge would disorganise the body
of law, represented the colony as a scene of turbulence, when not a single step had been taken
but the courts of Westminster would have approved. But the house was equally ill informed.
It readily acquiesced: the conversation dropped, and the despatch triumphed. No governors have
stood so high in the colonial-office as despatch writers; whether that ability in epistolary
correspondence implies general superiority, or that they beguile the minister of his judgment
by the subtlety or wisdom of their political disquisitions.

The petitions for representative government, repeated for more than twenty years, and which
strongly interested the sympathy of all classes, were renewed with increasing hope of success
from 1846 to 1850. The ministers, though admitting the abstract value of the privilege, hesitated
while the great preponderance of convicts seemed to require an absolute authority. This feeling
was not overcome until the accession of Lord Grey, who saw no danger in conceding to the free
population the common rights of Englishmen. A variety of plans were submitted at different
times to the parliament and ministry, to secure colonial representation. Mr. Joseph Hume suggested
(1832) the admission of a certain number of representatives chosen in the colonies to seats
in the House of Commons; in all nineteen, one being for Australia,--a measure once suggested
for the old American colonies; but the distance in both cases, and expenses of transit, would
not easily have admitted effective representation or perfect responsibility. Sir John Franklin
suggested (1839) a legislature, to consist of twenty-one members, one third nominated by the
crown, and the remainder elected by persons holding the qualification of common jurors. He
gave a generous testimony to the intelligence and probity of the settlers, and alleged that
they would bear comparison with corresponding classes within any dominions of the crown.[250]

In 1843 the legislature of New South Wales was constituted. Originally a nominee council, the
popular element was infused by two thirds being elective members. A civil list was reserved,
and the disposal of territorial revenues withheld; but the partial liberty enjoyed was used
with discretion and effect. The bill enjoined the establishment of district councils, authorised
to superintend internal affairs, and to fulfil many of the functions of municipal bodies. They
were, however, never called into action. The scattered inhabitants found it difficult to assemble,
and more so to reconcile their neighbors to local taxation. The machinery of the councils was
set in motion only to defeat their design. Thus the legislative body retained in its hands
the whole power which it had been intended to balance and check by the petty councils. Port
Phillip, however, then a part of New South Wales, but more distant from the metropolis than
England from Rome, was represented in a council sitting at Sydney. The loss of time required
disinclined most gentlemen to undertake the representation, and those chosen were chiefly resident
in New South Wales proper. Their numbers were too small for effectual action, and their sympathies
were divided between their constituents and their neighbors. The revenues raised at Victoria
were expended to some extent in the elder city, and the superintendent of Port Phillip had
little influence and less power in the government. The popular dissatisfaction, which led to
some unavailing petitions to the crown, took a curious form. Thus, in 1848, the electors met
at the hustings and discountenanced the appearance of a candidate, and after waiting an hour,
the returning officer announced that no member had been returned. On meeting for the election
of a member for the city Earl Grey was chosen. The governor and superintendent considered this
proceeding a disgraceful farce. The law officers could not question its legality, and the secretary
of state was for two years member for Melbourne, without, however, taking his seat. Mr. Westgarth,
a merchant of tried intelligence and public spirit, was chosen afterwards, and was presented
to the house "in the room of the Right Hon. Henry Grey, Earl Grey."

Sir Wm. Denison was instructed to report on the subject of an elective legislature for Van
Diemen's Land. He furnished Lord Grey with various opinions and suggestions. He had recommended
a frame-work, the counterpart of the New South Wales assembly, only, however, that he deemed
it undesirable for colonies so contiguous to differ in their institutions. The experience of
the Tasmanian legislative council had, he asserted, assisted him in forming an opinion on the
character of the people. "When we see," said Sir William, "the low estimate which is placed
upon every thing which can distinguish a man from his fellows, with the sole exception of wealth;
when we see that even wealth does not lead to distinction, or open the road to any other ambition
save that of excelling in habits of self-indulgence,--it can be hardly a subject of surprise
that so few rise above the general level, or that those few owe more to the possession of a
certain oratorical facility than to their powers of mind or the justness of the opinions they
advocate." "There is an essentially democratic spirit, which actuates a large mass of the community;
and it is with a view to check the development of this spirit that I would suggest the formation
of an upper chamber." Sir William Denison suggested that bishops might be members of an upper
house, and certain ex officio representatives of government; the rest, whether nominated by
the crown or elected by the people, to hold their seats for life.[251]

By a despatch to Sir Charles Fitz Roy, Earl Grey expounded a new constitutional system for
the colonies. It was zealously opposed in New South Wales. The people complained that the change
in the constitution without their consent was an infringement of their vested rights, and disrespectful
to their legislature. They objected strongly to a plan which made the district councils the
electors of the assembly. They repudiated the statement that their legislature had absorbed
all the powers of "the colonial state," and the checks and balance contemplated by the original
constitutional act. These views were sustained by the legislature itself. The idea of two chambers
was approved by the majority, but most elected members were against it.

The plans of Earl Grey and the correspondence and petitions they produced were referred to
the committee of the Privy Council, and the report adopted recognised all the great principles
of British government except the full control of the expenditure (1849). This able paper recommended
legislative councils for all colonies capable of supporting a civil list, one third nominees,
and the remainder chosen by the people. The division of the legislature into separate chambers
it resigned to the judgment of the colonies. It suggested a federal assembly for the general
interest of the Australias, having its action closely defined. The "House of Delegates," to
consist of not less than twenty nor more than thirty, were distributed--to each colony two,
and one additional for every fifteen-thousand souls. This plan of government was differently
regarded in different colonies. The elder condemned its restrictions: the younger rejoiced
in the prospect of new franchises, and trusted to time to enlarge their liberties. The general
opinion of intelligent men was favorable to the division of the legislature, but the colonies
were not capable of supplying the elements of nobility. Some aspiring persons desired a little
house of peers, others the appointment of senators by the crown, and for life: a greater number
were convinced that the legislature should be elective throughout. The social equality of settlers
who landed together could not be forgotten in the diversities of their colonial fortune. The
first collision of opinion would bring the machinery of double chambers to a dead lock, and
no interposing power could adjust the dislocated frame-work. A stoppage of supplies would follow
the first impulses of resentment. In English representation it is the last remedy, but then
it betokens the dismissal of a minister or the downfall of a dynasty.

The colonial press generally approved the ministerial bill, not as a measure approaching perfection,
but for some favorite object it was calculated to hasten. It was hailed at Port Phillip because
it secured separation from Sydney; at South Australia, as certain to terminate the ecclesiastical
endowments; and in Van Diemen's Land it was welcomed, with all its faults, as the engine sure
to destroy transportation. Thus the Colonial Reform Society, which attempted to defeat the
government measure, found little sympathy beyond New South Wales, where the change gave nothing.
The ministers interpreted the satisfaction of the colonies as a testimony to their skill, not
detestation of their government. The real cause of colonial delight was the severance of their
chains, and the certainty that when broken all the power of Europe could never renew them.

The bill suffered some mutilations in its passage to the throne. The federal clauses were expunged.
The local governors were opposed to the establishment of an assembly of delegates, which would
have overruled their individual policy. They were fearful of compromising their revenues by
permitting to New South Wales the preponderance of members. These objections, not indeed without
weight, and, still more, the jealousy of the conservatives of an organisation which seemed
but a prelude to independence, despoiled the measure of a provision which, however modified,
must be ultimately restored. A reduction of the franchise of the bill from £20 to £10, nearly
equal to household suffrage, was, however, the most considerable change. It was suggested by
Mr. R. Lowe, to bear down an opulent emancipist interest in New South Wales. It was expected
to give irresistible power to that class in Van Diemen's Land. The bill was carried through
the lords by a trifling majority in a thin house. The fate of a young empire but slightly moved
the British peerage. It received the royal assent, August 5th, 1850.

When the bill arrived the joy of Port Phillip was unbounded. Several days were devoted to processions
and feasting. Numberless devices were exhibited, displaying the political bias of the people.
Many thousand pounds were spent in the festivities. A similar though less magnificent display
was made in Van Diemen's Land. All ranks were inclined to forget their differences, and public
dinners, at which many hundreds were guests, celebrated the constitutional victory.

Lord John Russell, on the second reading of the bill, explained his opinions, which, whether
or not consistent with the ministerial measure, were worthy his station and political renown.
"I anticipate with others," he said, "that some of our colonies may so grow in wealth and population
that they may feel themselves strong enough to maintain their own independence in amity and
alliance with Great Britain. I do not think that that time is yet approaching. But let us make
them, as fast as possible, fit to govern themselves. Let us give them, as far as we can, the
capacity of ruling their own affairs. Let them increase in wealth and population; and, whatever
may happen, we of this great empire will have the consolation of saying that we have increased
the happiness of the world." Such sentiments tend to extinguish the desire to quit a political
connection rendered honorable by terms so nobly expressed by the first minister of the crown,
and which, if fairly carried out, will make the colonies cling with fondness to a nation so
magnanimous as to greet them with applause.

In 1846-7 important additions were made to the educational means of the colony. An episcopal
institution, called Christ's College, was formed at Bishopsbourne. Scholarships were founded
by the medical, military, and clerical professions, and divinity fellowships endowed (1846).
Lord Stanley recommended the establishment of a proprietary high school, open on equal terms
to all denominations, and promised the patronage of the crown. The site reserved for this purpose
at Hobart Town was granted by Sir W. Denison to the episcopalians, for the Hutchins' school.
This alienation was deemed unjust. Instead, however, of wasting time in unavailing complaints,
the friends of education were convened by Mr. H. Hopkins, an opulent merchant, when a prospectus
was submitted by the Rev. Dr. Lillie and J. West. A thousand pounds were subscribed in the
room, and in five weeks £5000 (1847). The first conspicuous object seen by the stranger on
entering the river is the High School of Hobarton,--an edifice erected amidst enchanting scenery,
on a site granted by the crown, and possessing architectural attractions which have yet to
be equalled in this hemisphere. The institution is managed by a council of nine, chosen by
the shareholders. The Rector, nominated by the London University, was the Rev. J. B. Froude,
author of the "Nemesis of Faith,"--a publication which led to his instant resignation. James
Eccleston, Esq., appointed in his stead, survived the opening of the school only one month.
A thousand pounds were subscribed for his widow.

Thus the activity of private zeal effected the objects contemplated by legislative interference.
The growth of population will give ample scope for these various institutions, and extinguish
all but a wholesome rivalry.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 248: The council derived their powers from the Act 9 of George IV., c. 83. They were
permitted to enact ordinances "for the good government of the colony," but they were forbidden
to impose taxes, except for local purposes; and they were ordered to state "distinctly and
particularly in the body" of every law the purposes to which the tax should be applied; and
thus to prevent the evasion of the prohibitory clause intended to protect the subject. It was
not worth while to enquire whether the view of the judges of the legality of the act in the
case of Symons v. Morgan was in harmony with the parliamentary act, because the question merged
in one of much greater importance--Whether they could take that act into consideration at all?
It was of far more consequence to know whether the colony had a remedy against the usurpation
of the legislative council, than to decide whether Messrs. Horne and Fleming were better lawyers
than Sir John Pedder and Mr. Justice Montagu. "The powers of a subordinate legislature," says
a distinguished writer, "are expressly or tacitly delegated by the supreme government. In order,
therefore, to determine whether an act of the legislature has a binding force, it is necessary
to look at the extent of the delegation. If the act be not within the scope of the delegation,
it is without binding force, and can be annulled before a competent tribunal" (Lewis on Dependencies).
Sir Wm. Denison stated that the silence of the Judges for fourteen days after the act was passed,--whatever
might have been the cause of that silence--ignorance, indolence, sickness, or corruption,--rendered
the most unlawful stretch of power on the part of the council, including the total subversion
of all the limitary clauses, binding upon the colony, and if sanctioned by the Queen, through
the same ministerial inadvertence or corruption, binding for ever. Judging of the intentions
of parliament by the general character of colonial legislation and by the cautious wording
of this act, it could scarcely be imagined that they suspended the public safety on such a
thread. That Englishmen should be deprived of their rights, without the possibility of appeal,
by the inadvertence of a judge--not sitting in a court of justice, but in his own chamber--would
be to legislate by accident. Sir Wm. Denison relied on the despatch of Sir George Murray (1828),
which accompanied the Act 9 Geo. IV., known as the "Huskisson Act." The former practice was
to require the governor to submit to the judge the draft of a bill before it was laid upon
the table of the council chamber, no principle of colonial law being more "firmly established
than that a colonial legislature cannot enact statutes repugnant to the law of England." The
judge (he said) "might have found himself often required in open court to deny the validity
of a colonial ordinance, on the ground of repugnancy." By the Act in question "provision was
made for fully learning the views of the judges upon the law, and for preventing their refusing
to execute any law that may be passed after a full consideration of their objections." Thus
it was intended to "combine, as far as possible, the advantage of a strict observance of a
general rule, and a harmony between the judges and the legislature." It was therefore clear
that the power given to the judges to stop the enforcement of any illegal ordinance continued
until their objections--whenever and wherever they might arise--had been "fully considered."--Hobart
Town Courier.]

[Footnote 249: Parl. papers, July. 1848.]

[Footnote 250: Despatch, August, 1838.]

[Footnote 251: Despatch to Earl Grey, 1848.]

SECTION II.

It now remains to record the most important colonial agitation of modern times. The opposition
of Van Diemen's Land to a system reprobated by mankind--too long despised--awakened everywhere
resistance to transportation; and, assisted by the discovery of gold fields of vast extent
and opulence, will change the penal policy of the British empire.

In the progress of the struggle all classes ranged on the same side. Parents thought of their
children--patriots of their country. Every legislature of this hemisphere has expressed the
popular will and demanded abolition, and the final triumph only awaits the fiat of the crown.
The steps of the colonists have been cautious and deliberate, their perseverence and energy
indomitable! Their success has been chequered by frequent disappointment, but never was a battle
more nobly fought--never was there a cause more worthy of triumph.

Mr. McLachlan, long a resident in Van Diemen's Land, judged the plans of Lord Stanley by the
test of experience, and warned the minister of their too certain results. Other colonists in
England corroborated his views and enforced his representation. Mr. Smith, a colonist of long
standing, obtained an audience at Downing-street. He described the social dangers which environed
the settlers. "I confess," said the noble lord, "that you are in an awful position."

The representation forwarded by Mr. Pitcairn and his coadjutors was intrusted to Mr. M'Lachlan's
care. The press of England took the side of the oppressed, and the inexorable office was obliged
to listen, to argue, and retract.

There was, however, one result of his scheme which moved the susceptibilities of Lord Stanley
himself. He shrank from the "intolerable evils of a breach of faith" with the exiles of Great
Britain. They had been encouraged to expect high wages and ready employment. Such was the fair
reward offered. Far other was their actual lot. "Thousands of prisoners," said an official
representation, "are going about idle, polluting the atmosphere in which they move. Is it to
be wondered at that the Pentonville men should fall?"[252] The extreme social degradation and
demoralising contamination to which they were exposed in Van Diemen's Land, and the disheartening
difficulties they had to contend with, were utterly incompatible with the spirit of Lord Stanley's
despatch.[253] This "breach of the public faith" was promptly repaired by a new series of projects.

Sir Charles Fitz Roy and Sir E. Wilmot, assisted by Mr. Latrobe, were instructed to select
a site whither to send exiles, there to remain while awaiting hire or voluntary emigration:
conditional pardons which gave liberty in Van Diemen's Land, were made available in all the
colonies.

The formation of a new settlement was the grand expedient. Vessels bringing convicts to Van
Diemen's Land were to convey ticket holders to North Australia. Happily for the world this
project was defeated. A squatter hired exiles in England, with the sanction of the minister.
A demand for labor sprung up. Sir George Gipps informed the secretary of state that from Moreton
Bay to Melbourne exiles would be welcome. This Mr. Latrobe confirmed (1845). The settlers associated
to bring expirees from Van Diemen's Land. Many shiploads were deported at £1 per head. Thus
the difficulty appeared at an end. The Maitland, engaged for North Australia, was diverted
to Port Phillip. The men were promptly employed. The considerable flockmasters were desirous
of a regular supply, while the colonists in general were far less cordial. Opposition was,
however, languid; and the occasional apathy of the public and the indecision of the press were
construed as assent.

While the home and colonial governments were constructing and dissolving systems, the idea
of abolition was started by the press. "The settlers," said the Examiner, "may not be prepared
for this. Our own impression is that they are not; but it is our firm opinion that at no distant
day the unanimous voice of the community will say, in a tone not to be disregarded, cease transportation
for ever." (March, 1844.) Events a few months after still more forcibly pointed to this issue.

Mr. M'Lachlan, in a letter to Mr. Gladstone, put the case of Van Diemen's Land in a striking
aspect. "Shall the fairest isle in the south be converted into one huge gaol? shall the free
inhabitants be made the passive instruments of punishing these criminals? Is this the only
capacity in which the British government will recognise the free colonists? The petitioners
have laid their case before the legislature. They trust they have not appealed in vain--that
they will not be driven from a land where the best days of many of them have been spent" (February,
1846).

The petition prepared by Mr. Pitcairn was presented in the lords by the Marquis of Lansdowne
(March, 1846). In remarking on its contents, Lord Stanley begged their lordships to believe
that the question involved interests more important than a single colony! He stated that Van
Diemen's Land could not be swamped by an annual influx of four thousand. If, he said, the thirty
thousand persons released from the prisons of France were so intolerable, what must be the
condition of England with sixty thousand expirees then settled in the colonies? Van Diemen's
Land was always a penal colony, and he saw no reason that it should be otherwise. Earl Grey
warmly censured this policy, and complained "that no hope of relief from the frightful evils
of transportation had been afforded." He stated that he was "prepared to express an opinion
that transportation should be got rid of. He had long entertained that opinion, and had never
seen the arguments of the Archbishop of Dublin refuted." A duplicate of this petition, presented
to the Commons, was followed by the motion of Mr. Ewart, "That it is inexpedient to make Van
Diemen's Land the sole receptacle of convicts, and that transportation be abolished, except
as a supplement to penal discipline" (May, 1846). The day chosen was inauspicious. The "house"
was gone to the Epsom races. Mr. Hudson, the railway king, not better employed, stumbled into
the chapel of St. Stephen, and counted out the members. Mr. Ewart renewed his motion (July
6). A few days before Earl Grey and Mr. Hawes had obtained the command of the colonies, they
admitted the facts of the petition, and promised redress. The liberal principles avowed by
the new government reassured the friends of Van Diemen's Land. Mr. Gladstone had determined
to arrest the influx of convicts for two years: this was approved by his successor. In quashing
the North Australian colony, Earl Grey stated his dissent from the principles on which it had
been founded (September 30, 1846). The whigs ever expressed a decided abhorrence of penal colonisation
and the collection of masses cradled in the traditions of crime. When taunted with this accumulation
in Van Diemen's Land as the result of his policy of 1840, Lord John Russell explained:--"As
to the sending of convicts to Van Diemen's Land, he had intended to adopt the policy recommended
in the work of the Archbishop of Dublin. Had his plan been carried out, instead of 4,000 convicts
sent to Van Diemen's Land there would not have been more than five or six hundred."

When Earl Grey instructed Sir William Denison in reference to certain reforms, he intimated
his expectation that transportation would terminate. Soon after Sir William Denison addressed
to the magistrates of the territory a series of enquiries (March, 1847), of which the first
was awfully momentous. "Do you consider it desirable that transportation of convicts to this
country should cease altogether?" The character of the enquiry was described in a letter signed
by the private secretary. The governor preferred communicating with these gentlemen, and by
them with their neighbours, rather than with popular assemblies. It was not, however, to be
expected that a subject of direct and universal concern would be resigned to the discussion
of a single class; nor did persons holding magisterial distinctions, on that account command
the confidence of the people. This was felt by the magistrates themselves. A preliminary meeting
was convened at Hobart Town to discuss the subject of the circular. A difference of opinion
was apparent, and an angry altercation ensued. Mr. Carter, a storekeeper, defended transportation
as necessary to trade. Mr. Gregson advised his auditors to cast the question of crocks and
slops to the wind, and to secure at once the final liberation of the colony. A public meeting
was held at Hobart Town. Ineffectual attempts to postpone the question by the advocates of
transportation were offered, and the speakers on the popular side were loudly cheered. The
party defeated signed a memorial representing that they were not heard at the meeting, and
repudiating its decision. Sir William Denison promised to place it in the hands of Earl Grey
"as a record to be employed in the support of the facts it contained."

This second petition, adopted by the colony (6th May, 1847), was also drawn up by Mr. Pitcairn.
The editors of the London Morning Chronicle remarked "That they never read a public document
more calculated to command both the convictions and sympathies of those whom it addresses.
Future ages would contemplate with amazement the fact that wrongs so cruel in their nature,
and so enormous in their amount, have been inflicted in civilized times." It recapitulated
the grievances of the colony with energy and clearness. It complained that promises of relief
had proved fallacious--that the worst evils of transportation were continued; that there were
then four thousand prisoners more in the colony than were ever at one time in New South Wales,
and that 12,000 free persons had quitted the country since 1841. The petition asked for representative
government, the abolition of transportation, and the importation of 12,000 free immigrants
at the expense of Great Britain; and it recommended the removal of the men to the colony of
North Australia, or wherever they might be required. Meetings were held by different classes
in several districts of the colony. In the most populous the feeling decidedly favored abolition.
Not the least important of the series were held in Launceston. Six magistrates of the north
determined to advise with the colonists at large. The persons who assembled at their call were
undecided; the friends of abolition desired delay; its determined opponents deprecated public
discussion; but to the majority deliberation seemed necessary, and on the motion of Mr. Dry
a committee was constituted who were requested to collect evidence, to make a report, and draft
a reply to the circular of the governor.[254] The tradesmen of that public spirited community
first expressed their sentiments. A few transportationists induced a respectable shopkeeper
to propose thirty-nine reasons for the continuance of transportation, but the warmth of his
elocution and the frequent repetition of "because" in an Aberdeen accent, dissolved his party
in laughter. The good humoured logician acquiesced in the voice of the assembly and abandoned
the cause of transportation for ever. The meeting convened of the northern colonists assembled
on the 10th of May. The committee appointed on the 3d of April having prepared a report, and
founded on its conclusions a reply to the circular, it was signed by the chairman, James Cox,
Esq., of Clarendon.[255] Many who were formerly advocates for transportation as it once existed,
saw its dangers when they became anxious for the moral and social welfare of their sons. They
were formerly but flockmasters, but they had become the founders of a state. They learned from
the discussions of the ministers that what they had thought a service rendered to the crown
was deemed disgraceful and degrading. Opulent settlers who visited Europe found it convenient
to conceal their home, and some less prudent were repelled with unconquerable distrust.[256]
In a small community the public reputation is of personal importance, and it was alleged that
to neglect the offer of social freedom would be infamy unexampled. To this feeling the abolitionists
appealed. "Parents of Van Diemen's Land," said the author of a pamphlet called Common Sense,
"can you hesitate? Let the timid and sordid doubt,--let them reckon the farthing they may lose!
Let your hearts dictate your answer to the circular. Let it be worthy Britons, Christians,
and Parents. Shew that you prize your rights, and that you love your children. That land which
they tell you will become a desert when the clank of chains, the cries of torture, the noise
of riot, and the groans of despair shall be heard no longer, will not become a desert; 'it
will blossom abundantly, and rejoice with joy and singing,' when your sons and daughters shall
go forth, the free among the free. Consult your own understandings, that you may obey the dictates
of your hearts. The Sovereign has invited you to express your desire. Let it not be one that
will cause the eyes of mankind to look upon you with abhorrence, and turn away with contempt.
Make not your name a scorn and a hissing! Perform your duty, AND SAVE YOUR ADOPTED COUNTRY!"

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 252: Mr. Boyd, August 29, 1845.]

[Footnote 253: Dr. Hampton to the Commissioner of P. P., Aug. '45.]

[Footnote 254: The committee was constituted by the following gentlemen:--Wm. Archer, J.P.,
W. H. Browne, L.L.D., James Cox, J.P., R. Dry. M.L.C., F. M. Innes, Esq., J. G. Jennings, J.P.,
W. R. Pugh, M.D., J.P., H. Reed, J.P., J. Thompson, Esq., and J. A. Youl, J. P.]

[Footnote 255: This document, some extracts of which express the prevailing opinion, was read
by Mr. Dry:--

"The circular addressed by his Excellency to the magistrates of this territory, has been made
the subject of careful deliberation.

To his Excellency's first question--'Do you consider it desirable that the transportation of
convicts to this colony should cease altogether?' we reply that it is our opinion transportation
'to this country should cease altogether.'

In connexion with this question we recognise the truth and importance of his Excellency's caution,
that no 'material advantage' ought to 'balance against any amount of moral evil, however small;'
we have therefore directed our attention to this point as preliminary to a decision on others
less vital.

In examining the moral bearings of transportation, we have enquired--

1. Are there any moral evils occasioned by the transportation of convicts to the colony?

2. If so, are the moral evils now connected with transportation inherent and inseparable?

3. Can it be presumed that other, and greater moral evils will accrue to the colony from the
stoppage of transportation?

It appears that the convicts in this colony out-number the children, and amount to nearly double
the adult free population; that since the year 1840, 25,228 prisoners have been transported
to Van Diemen's Land and its dependencies; that one fifth only of these are females; that the
greater proportion of domestic servants as well as laborers are convicts; that they are in
constant contact with every class of colonial society; and that though not universally, they
are generally persons of bad principles and vicious habits.

The numerical preponderance of prisoners has lowered the general tone of society, encouraged
fraud, obstructed the administration of justice, and so far multiplied crime as to discourage
its prosecution; notwithstanding 521 persons were tried before the Supreme Court and Quarter
Sessions, last year.

The second enquiry is,--are the evils in connection with transportation inherent and inseparable?

Looking at the present condition of this island, it may be justly concluded that they are.

Reason and experience justify the conclusion that the aggregation of prisoners whether in close
bondage or in society, must confirm them in evil. The effect of transportation is to force
the free working classes from the island, and to supply their place with prisoners. It appears,
therefore, demonstrable that as far as they are the instruments of demoralization, it is inevitable,
from their numerical preponderance. Their condition affords no prospect of extensive reformation,
and whatever evils they may be supposed to create, are essential consequences of transportation.

3. 'Whether greater evils may not arise from the shock to society, which the sudden cessation
of a supply of labour may cause?'

It is not perceived in what manner the want of labour can be productive of greater moral evils
than now exist. An increase of wages must be so far beneficial to the employed, and increase
their means of comfort. It is not supposed that a deficiency of labour will increase the immorality
of the upper classes; and no connexion can be discovered between cessation and an increase
of evil in any form whatever. On the contrary, transportation, by raising the proportion of
the aged, the feeble, and the incapable, would seem to lead to the apprehension that greater
immorality may result as the growing effect of want and distress. Even were it true, that the
more wealthy classes are safe from contamination could a moral cordon be drawn--even could
they be held safe from the effects of unrestricted communication with men of the same language,
color, and nation--still there appears no propriety in leaving the working classes generally
out of account. Many were induced to settle in this country by representations for which the
government is morally responsible. As subjects of the Queen, they are entitled to be guarded
against any measures which may destroy their social position and domestic security; it would
be difficult to justify the sacrifice of their welfare for the sake of a class--numerically
much smaller--however rich.

And, in looking at the circumstances of this colony, no causes have been discovered for inferring
its decline, excepting only such as are the effects of transportation."

The reply to the first query, "that transportation ought to cease at once and for ever," elicited
applause that lasted some minutes.]

[Footnote 256: In our native land we are looked upon with feelings of horror. An old and respected
colonist, and a most intimate friend of his own, had gone home, and had lately returned. He
had told him some stories, and he would vouch for the truth of them. When he arrived at home
he took his family to an hotel. He had not been there long before the landlord learnt that
he had come from this place: he came to him with a face full of concern, and said, "You did
not tell me, sir, that you came from Van Diemen's Land; do not let it be known, or I shall
be ruined." On another occasion a friend of his had to assure the landlord that he was a perfectly
honest man, and he need not be afraid of him, although he did come from Van Diemen's Land.
A short time after he had been in England he engaged a butler. He had not been long in the
family before he came and said the place did not suit him, and he left at once. The servants
whom he had taken from this place soon found out the feeling that existed; and, instead of
saying they came from here, they used to say they came from India.--Speech of Robert Officer,
M. D., at Hobart Town Meeting.]

SECTION III.

The benefit derived from Mr. M'Lachlan's efforts was apparent to all. But he was returning
to Van Diemen's Land. The New South Wales legislature engaged the Honourable F. Scott, M.P.,
to watch over their concerns. To this Lord Stanley demurred. He said a retainer for a colony
was inconsistent with the standing obligations of a member of parliament, and that a committee
to direct him would usurp the functions of the executive (1845). The old American colonies
appointed agents: sometimes acting for only one branch of the legislature where there were
two chambers. They were often members of parliament. Edmund Burke filled this office for the
assembly of New York, with a salary of £500. The people of Van Diemen's Land formed "The London
Agency Association," and appointed Mr. J. A. Jackson to represent them. Their proceedings were
adopted by the colony, at a meeting called by the sheriff of Hobart Town; they did not however
pretend to public authority, and they confined their attention to secular questions. The subscribers
were called together at this crisis. By a vote, almost unanimous, they adopted a letter of
instructions which directed Mr. Jackson to support the cause of total abolition. The London
Agency Association expressed the opinions of the country gentlemen. There were several other
organisations composed chiefly of tradesmen. In reference, however, to representation and abolition,
all classes agreed.

The British Government seemed to anticipate the wishes of the colonists. A despatch (February
5, 1847,) from Earl Grey, printed in the blue book, informed the people that transportation
to Van Diemen's Land, except, indeed, as a part of the colonial empire, was finally terminated.
There was nothing to prevent the arrival of exiles, when the state of the colony could admit
of their dispersion amidst a free people,--a condition explicitly required by the primary object
of cessation. This despatch Sir William Denison laid on the table of the council, and while
he noticed its harmony with the wishes of a large proportion of the free inhabitants, he exhorted
them to beware of undue exultation or despondency whatever the issue of the measure, and in
this crisis of their fate to confide in the goodness of God (July, 1847).

The views of the government were expounded in official letters and speeches in the British
legislature. Stated with brevity they expressed a purpose to punish crime in England, and to
assist the emigration to every British colony, individually rather than collectively, of men
with conditional pardons. Sir George Grey asserted that the idea of resuming transportation
to Van Diemen's Land was illusory. He recommended that the governor should be instantly informed
of its termination. He condemned the practice of sending many exiles to one place as likely
to create a feeling of caste, and in time produce the evils of penal colonisation. With these
views Earl Grey concurred (February 5, 1847). He stated that they agreed with his established
opinion, and he thought that well trained convicts might be dispersed in the colonies, especially
taking care to promote the emigration of a considerable number of persons untainted with crime.
To the same effect was his exposition of the future policy in the House of Lords. He expressed
a hope that exiles might be so distributed that the chance of recognition should be slight.
Lord Brougham made merry at this notion of banishment as a game at which two could play, and
depicted the consternation of Calais at an arrival of reformed Pentonvillians. The chief reliance
of Earl Grey was on the demand for convict labor in the colonies, which he far too highly estimated.
When the intentions of the home government were declared, Sir W. Denison, who had given opposite
advice, hastened to recall his recommendation. He stated that to resume transportation in any
shape would be looked upon as a breach of faith, and be very embarrassing to government (August
28, 1847).

The publication of Earl Grey's policy occasioned general gladness and gratitude. But it was
followed by a measure adverse to its whole spirit and the facts on which it had been founded
(September, 1847). The governor was directed to remove the convicts at Norfolk Island to Van
Diemen's Land, and to receive those remaining in New South Wales not entitled to release. Drafts
of transports were constantly arriving from every British dependency, and thus additions were
daily made to the overwhelming convict population. The vices of the Norfolk Island prisoners
had appalled the empire. The residuary convicts of New South Wales indicated their character
by their long detention. Some were imprisoned in caverns dug in the rocks, and their depravity
assumed the aspect of mania. The whole colony was roused by these projects. Meetings and memorials
were multiplied. A deputation to the governor, then in Launceston, was attended by a long and
excited procession. He concurred in their sentiments, suspended the progress of the scheme,
and received the thanks of the colonists and the minister. The result was unimportant, for
from Norfolk Island the convicts were silently transmitted to Van Diemen's Land and distributed
undistinguished.

Mr. Gladstone, when secretary for the colonies, addressed a confidential despatch to Sir C.
Fitz Roy (April, 1846), and left its publication to his discretion. It proposed to renew transportation
to New South Wales with the assent of the colonial legislature. This proposal was submitted
to a committee of the council. A report was founded on the evidence of employers and forwarded
to Earl Grey. It consented, conditionally; that two free persons should be sent at the expense
of England for every prisoner, and that assignment should be revived. It admitted that the
real welfare of the colony might be best promoted by the total stoppage of transportation to
Australasia; and it yielded to a regulated and compensating scheme only as the alternative
of indirect transportation. To give effect to the report, of which the adjournment of the legislative
council prevented the consideration, Mr. Darvall and five hundred others presented a petition
to the crown, which Earl Grey, "laid at the foot of the throne." Earl Grey refused to restore
assignment or to send two free persons for one in bonds; but he offered to send an equal number
of each at the cost of the British treasury (September 3, 1847). After an earnest but limited
opposition the proposal was accepted by the legislative council, and the vast territory of
New South Wales opened to the dispersion of 5,000 prisoners per annum.

But Earl Grey himself departed from his own proposals (September, 1848). He alleged that the
exchequer would not permit the execution of the emigration scheme, and that the demand for
labour in the other British colonies to the full extent of the supply rendered the outlay unnecessary.
Yet to satisfy the petitioners for convicts, some ships would be sent. But should the legislature
insist, emigrants in equal numbers would follow them, and transportation terminate.

The adoption of this course was prompted by financial considerations, but especially by the
offer of Sir William Denison to receive 4,000 convicts annually, and thus to disperse them
over the continent. This offer had been cancelled in another despatch, but of this, although
before him, Earl Grey took no notice. He described with great apparent elation, the character
of reformed prisoners, and quoted a chaplain as his authority, who represented them in the
most favorable light. They cheerfully endured exposure on the public works, to deter their
fellow countrymen from crime, and overcame all their adversities by patience and prayer. To
a variety of notions, all absurd and impracticable, and all speedily abandoned, he added, "Her
Majesty's government accordingly propose in future, with regard to all convicts, except those
whose health may require different treatment, or whose sentences have been commuted for imprisonment,
that, after having gone through the two first stages of punishment already adverted to, they
should be removed as holders of tickets-of-leave to Van Diemen's Land" (April 27, 1848).

Mr. Jackson obtained an interview with Earl Grey (Oct., 1848), and pointed out the injustice
of this course. His lordship lamented the revival of transportation to Van Diemen's Land, and
said that it arose from unavoidable circumstances. He declared his adherence to the plan of
dispersion, and his belief that South Africa, Port Phillip, and other colonies would afford
an ample outlet for the prisoners. Circulars were accordingly sent to the Cape of Good Hope,
the Mauritius, New Zealand, New South Wales, and Swan River. The Swan River colonists, a few
hundreds in all, accepted the offer. South Australia refused. In New Zealand the people of
both colors deprecated the plan. "Send us gentlemen," said the chiefs, "but send us no convicts."

Before replies could arrive, Earl Grey resolved to attempt its execution. He began with the
Cape of Good Hope: he thought that the military outlay for its defence entitled the crown to
invade it with convicts. The Neptune, with ticket-holders from Ireland, anchored in Simon's
Bay: the inhabitants besought Sir Harry Smith to send her back. This he refused; but he expressed
his entire sympathy with their opinions, and forwarded a despatch to that effect. He promised
that not one should land without new orders from the secretary of state. The people, unwilling
to depend on the justice of Earl Grey, formed a confederacy. They refused to hold intercourse
with the government, or while the vessel remained on their coast to supply the commissariat,
or to deal with any who violated this compact. Branch associations sprung up in every district:
passes were issued to travellers to show they had not strayed from the Neptune. Every public
body, civil and religious, sanctioned the resistance. The cause of the Cape was espoused by
the British press. A motion was made in the Commons, by Mr. Adderley, amounting to a censure
on the minister. Both Lord John Russell and Earl Grey promised to remove the grievance, and
the Neptune was ordered to sail for Van Diemen's Land (November 3, 1849). The inhabitants gave
money to be distributed to the prisoners at their destination (February, 1850). This done,
they joined in illuminations, public thanksgivings, and congratulatory addresses to the governor,
who reproved their zeal, but rejoiced at their success. A prosecution of Mr. Fairbairn, for
conspiracy to compel an unlawful act, was begun, but fell to the ground. A settler who supplied
the government was honored with knighthood: an example was offered to the empire of passive
but victorious resistance.

The despatch of Earl Grey repudiating his own stipulation excited the rage of New South Wales.
Mr. Charles Cowper carried resolutions rejecting transportation in any form whatever through
the legislative council without opposition. On the arrival of the Hashemy, a convict vessel,
the inhabitants of Sydney to the number of some thousands assembled (June 11, 1849), and by
a deputation to Sir Charles Fitz Roy, demanded that the prisoners should be sent away, if necessary
at the colonial cost. Sir Charles was alarmed and increased his guards; he refused admittance
to the deputation, and represented their constituents as a factious and feeble minority. The
Randolph on a similar errand entered Port Phillip; the people resolved to oppose the landing.
They applied to Sir Charles Fitz Roy, then on a visit to their district, to prevent their invasion.
They were sustained by the forcible remonstrance of Mr. Latrobe, and the vessel was sent to
another part of the territory.

No single cause will fully account for the intense and universal opposition to the plans of
Earl Grey. The vacillation of his lordship in reference to the emigrant clause, produced feelings
of exasperation and distrust, but the sad experience of Van Diemen's Land was accepted as a
warning by other portions of the empire. A pamphlet, recording the proceedings of the Tasmanian
colonists, was everywhere scattered. It minutely examined the penal policy of the crown, and
recorded the various demonstrations against convictism (June, 1847). A large package of this
pamphlet was forwarded by the Launceston Association to the Cape of Good Hope, and arrived
a few weeks before the Neptune. Thus foreign fuel was added to the local fire--the testimony
of men who had practically known the system, and by whom it was abhorred. The committee appointed
by the Lords (1847), by the witnesses they examined, authenticated the evidence against it.
The fate of Van Diemen's Land did not command peculiar interest amidst the wreck of thrones
and the overthrow of empires; but the supposed connection between the criminals and insurgents
of France alarmed the aristocracy, and disposed them to cling to transportation. The Bishop
of Tasmania bore testimony to its colonial mischief. Lord Brougham endeavored to draw admissions
favorable to his views with professional acuteness; but he was foiled, and the bishop pronounced
the solemn warning that those who cast a prisoner, especially a woman, into a community where
criminal principles prevail, pronounce a sentence for both worlds.

The Tasmanian colonists were soon instructed by the press that the theory of dispersion was
exploded. They were astonished to find fresh convict vessels hovering on their shores; but
more still were they amazed to learn that Earl Grey seriously professed that by sending all
the convicts to Van Diemen's Land he substantially realised dispersion. He indeed promised
to provide an equal amount of emigration, but they knew that these projects were illusive.
They had before them the addition of convict ticket holders, by hundreds, to thousands and
tens of thousands already in the colony; there to struggle with their predecessors for bread.
Such was the prospect of 1848.

SECTION IV.

"I hope," said Lord John Russell, "that when the house does come seriously to consider any
bill having the question of transportation directly in view, it will consider the benefit of
the colonies as well as of the mother country. I own I think it has been too much the custom
both to pass acts imposing the penalty of transportation with a view rather to the convenience
of this country than to the reformation of persons known to be of vicious habits, or to the
interest of the colonies to which they were sent. We are bound to consider those interests
likewise. We are bound when we are planting provinces, perhaps what may in future time be empires,
to endeavour that they should not be merely seats of malefactors and of convicts, but communities
fitted to set an example of virtue and happiness, and not to make plantations, as Lord Bacon
says, of the scum of the land" (June, 1847). Such were the sentiments of the prime minister
on penal colonisation. The secretary of the home department and the secretary for the colonies
had been equally explicit. Could they really believe their own doctrine, when their practice
was exactly opposite to its plainest dictates?

The revolution in the policy of the crown everywhere excited astonishment and indignation.
The minister, who denounced penal colonisation as a national crime--who had pleaded the cause
of the colony and pledged the redress of its grievances--who, in short, had professed himself
a disciple of Archbishop Whately--continued to pour convicts by thousands where for every free
man there were two in bond. Destitute of legislative and physical power, the colonists could
do nothing but deprecate. Every principal town and public body renewed their entreaties. To
give them in full would be but to repeat statements of similar import. However variously expressed,
they could scarcely deepen the unavoidable convictions of the world.

In their numerous petitions the colonists referred to the public joy which had greeted an offer
of abolition,--accepted not less as a signal interference of providence than as a proof of
the equity of the British government. They slightly censured Sir William Denison who had called
for four thousand convicts annually, against the petitions of 5,320 colonists, 624 parents
and guardians, representing 3,355 souls; against the memorials of the clergy of every sect,
the oldest magistrates, and most opulent settlers, and public meetings everywhere decisive,
and they entreated deliverance from an experiment more hopeless than its predecessors. They
reminded the government of Great Britain that the colony was now entitled to abolition, not
only as a measure politic in itself, but as guaranteed by the deliberate and solemn promise
of the minister, promulgated by the representative of the crown.

A massive volume would be insufficient to contain the petitions, letters, and despatches produced
in this controversy. Colonists well qualified to maintain the popular cause devoted to this
question the best years of life.

Sir William Denison, although opposed to one form of transportation, maintained its substance
with a pertinacity which never wavered. He stood almost alone. He adopted the opinion that
the supply of labor to the colonies of this hemisphere was within the special province of his
government. The tendency of high wages to demoralise the workman and retard the prosperity
of employers, are prominent topics in all his discourses and writings. Thus the masses of the
people inferred that his schemes were hostile to their welfare, and that the depression of
the working classes was a primary object of his policy. The opulent settlers had abandoned
these considerations under the influence of higher aims. They were resolved to trust to the
experience of other colonies where--with a demand for labor--a rapid enlargement of capital
and diminished crime seemed to prove that the moral and material interests of the wealthy and
industrial classes were not incompatible. The social recovery of the colony could only be effected
by the influx of families, and a comfortable subsistence was indispensable to attract them.
The arguments of the governor, addressed to momentary interests, were overpowered by a desire
to stand on a level with free peoples. The disputants on both sides were in possession of facts
favorable to their respective opinions. Whatever evils were proved against transportation,
the labor it afforded had been long employed. Habit had reconciled the minds of many to its
inferiority; and the means of supplying its place were confessedly contingent and remote. A
new society, having no disabilities to remove, no moral stain to obliterate, and formed of
elements in natural proportion, could not hesitate a moment. Economical experience would dictate
the rejection of slaves. But to clear away the refuse of a long-existing social state, and
to build anew, was a formidable undertaking, however certain of reward. Many landholders and
masters foresaw the trials attending the transition, but were willing to encounter them to
attain an object beyond all price. "We wish it," said one of their manifestos, "to go forth
to England, and to England's Queen, that we are not expecting solicitation or waiting for bribes;
but knowing what we do, and prizing as man must ever prize the sources of gain, our resolution
is taken,--relying on the sympathy of mankind, we cast ourselves on the goodness of Almighty
God, and dare all hazards, that our children may be virtuous, and their country free."

The expression of colonial feeling was accepted by most respectable dissentients as decisive.
The settlers least averse to transportation were disgusted with the ever-changing views of
the ministers. In the preceding ten years they had never known an hour's repose. In '38, the
parliamentary committee condemned assignment. In '40, Lord John Russell stopped transportation.
In '41, Captain Maconochie's mark system was in the ascendant. In '42, Lord Stanley's probation
scheme sprang up. In '45, Mr. Gladstone projected the North Australian colony for ticket-holders.
In '46, Earl Grey propounded the Tasmanian convict village scheme. In '47, he announced total
abolition. In '48, another complete revolution took place, and all convicts were to be sent
to Van Diemen's Land. This extravagance of upstart theory and fitful experiment without end,
all tended to check colonial enterprise and destroy the public tranquillity.

In whatever sense Earl Grey announced abolition in '47, it was clear that free emigration was
essential to his plan when he proposed to resume it in '48. The funds he assigned for this
purpose were sums,--the cost of their exile--to be exacted from ticket-holders as the price
of freedom. But these funds were wholly prospective. Insuperable difficulties opposed their
collection. Nor was the principle just. The sickly and unskilful would have stood at a greater
distance from liberation than the clever and robust. The successful thief could purchase his
freedom, and leave behind his more honest shipmates. The criminal being confounded with the
debtor, a penal sentence would have ended in a civil process. Earl Grey proposed to add to
the free population by the expenditure of £10,000, granted by the parliament, but it was found
that the families of convicts were to be the chief participants. Thus resumption cut off all
hope of free emigration. Nor was it even desirable while the laboring classes were in poverty.
The settlers had the example of New South Wales before them; where even the sudden stoppage
of transportation had been followed by rapid recovery. They were willing to combat their difficulties
alone. "Such," said they, "will at no distant period be the condition of this country should
the government prove just. And then, with its fertile valleys, clothed with abundance and filled
with life, and its pure salubrious atmosphere giving length of days, it will need no other
attractions than nature has conferred--no other commerce than the commerce of freedom--no patronage
save the enterprise of its children. From the crown we ask nothing except to spare us from
further wrong, and to accept our grateful loyalty in return for the uplifting of a burden too
heavy to bear."

The governor himself was adverse to the ticket system. The control exercised over the holders
was limited to the most ineffectual and distant surveillance. They were free in reference to
the colonists, and were subject to the same laws for the regulation of service. Restrictions
were imposed on their locomotion, but without much practical restraint. Sir William Denison
now recommended to the secretary of state to send all convicts to New South Wales, where wages
were high and labor scarce, until the colonies being equal, the market of Van Diemen's Land
might again share in absorbing them. To this plan the colony would have been disposed to assent
at this stage of the struggle. By most persons it was thought reasonable, on national grounds,
that the theory of dispersion should be tried, wherever it might inflict no peculiar caste
or moral stain. Mr. Sharland, a strenuous abolitionist, prepared a series of resolutions against
the new form of convictism. The governor promised to support them in the nominee council, and
they passed unanimously (October, 1848). The first totally objected to the ticket system, as
in the highest degree injurious to the convicts and the colony, and without advantage to Great
Britain. The second recommended the dispersion of convicts throughout the colonies, accompanied
by well-selected emigrants. The commentary of the governor explained these resolutions as a
compromise between persons of adverse views. A large number of non-official magistrates--117
out of 140--signed the condemnatory clause only. They declined to countenance the revival of
transportation, or, by discussing theories of secondary punishment, to weaken the moral claim
held in the pledge of Earl Grey.

The increasing numbers of ticket-holders confirmed these objections. They were landed, and
forwarded in considerable bodies to seek employment in the interior. Their decent apparel and
quiet demeanour made them less objects of aversion than pity. Unacquainted with colonial labor,
they were often unable to procure employment. Amongst men of this class many, of course, were
disorderly and reckless, and when they were not readily relieved, they were insolent and threatening.
They could, indeed, throw up their tickets, and claim food of the government, but only by a
process which exposed them to censure and punishment. "Unfortunate men," said the London Agency
Association, "unacquainted with useful labor, wander from farm to farm, asking for a night's
shelter or a morsel of bread. The relief of these men by the settlers is prompted alike by
their humanity and their fears."[257] These statements were disputed by the governor, but they
were sustained by numerous certificates, and, in a form more qualified, by several police magistrates.
In a lonely locality females could hardly refuse relief to applicants in parties, who pleaded
the utmost want, and, when travelling over districts equal to an English county, depended on
the charity of the settlers.

These appeals were laid before parliament; they rested their claims on the word and honor of
the minister, and on the unaltered circumstances which he quoted to justify his original design
of abolition. The pledge was confirmed by the long acquiescence of Earl Grey and the other
ministers of the crown. Lord Mahon, a member of the late ministry, complained that Earl Grey
had fettered not only himself but his successors. He confirmed the colonial interpretation
of the pledge, "most imprudently given by Earl Grey, that transportation should not be resumed
to Van Diemen's Land;" and he expressed an opinion "that it was most impolitic and perilous
thus to make pledges to the colonists that were not fulfilled."[258]

During the same session Mr. Gladstone repeatedly referred to the purport of this abolition
despatch, and urged the minister to extend as widely as possible the area of penal dispersion.
He thought the policy of England less wise than in former times, when the numbers distributed
in America were so small that they were lost in the mass of the population (March, '49). Lord
John Russell, he observed, had given a pledge that transportation to New South Wales should
be stopped. The same promise was made to Van Diemen's Land. Had these pledges been kept? Such
vacillation was discreditable to the name of this great country (June, '49).

Earl Grey was still pressed by the reiterated appeals of Van Diemen's Land, and by imputations
of having broken faith with its inhabitants. The complaints of eminent commoners were renewed
in the lords. He was reminded that his opinions in 1846 were at variance with continued transportation.
Earl Grey demanded proof, when Lord Lyttleton held up his despatch, and referred to an opinion
but a few days before avowed by Lord John Russell, that the time was at hand when a substitute
would be necessary for transportation. Lords Wodehouse and Ilchester followed, and predicted
a fearful recoil,--a severe and well merited retribution. Lord Stanley reflected on the secretary
of state for abandoning the remedial plans of his predecessor. "Expectations," he said, "had
been held out to Van Diemen's Land, that transportation would cease, but that now it appeared
that it was not to cease. What security had the noble lord that the colony would not resist
the reception of convicts?" Lord Monteagle asked if it was possible to send them to Van Diemen's
Land? To this Earl Grey replied that the colony was thriving, that the opposition to transportation
had declined. Millions had been expended in preparing the country for convicts, and the free
inhabitants could not expect that when they chose to call for cessation, the imperial policy
was to be altered on their demand (April 12, 1850).

"I must notice," said Earl Grey, "the remarks of the noble lord at the table (Lord Lyttleton)
and the noble lord opposite, (Lord Stanley) as to the effect of the earlier measures of the
present administration in producing the difficulty which is now complained of. It is asserted
that the language used both in despatches and in discussions in parliament by members of her
Majesty's government was calculated to create an impression on the minds of the colonists,
that transportation was to be entirely discontinued, and thus to raise expectation, which it
is painful now to disappoint. My lords, if that impression and these expectations were created,
it was rather by what other parties represented to be the views and intentions of the government,
than by anything which was said by members of the administration. I defy any person to read
through the despatches upon this subject as a whole (for perhaps detached passages taken without
the contents might be quoted which would convey a different meaning), and not to perceive that
the view entertained from first to last was, that convicts, after having undergone the most
severe part of their punishment, were to be removed to the Australian colonies, and a very
large portion of them to Van Diemen's Land. Undoubtedly it was the original intention of her
Majesty's government that convicts should be removed as exiles; that is, under regulations
by which on their arrival they would have been entirely free except as to the power of returning
to this country." When his lordship was again taunted with the violation of his promise, he
replied that Van Diemen's Land had no right to complain--colonies which had been founded as
free colonies might do so; "but Van Diemen's Land had been originally intended as a penal settlement,
and had no right to refuse to receive any number of prisoners the government choose to send,
and that he (Earl Grey) was of opinion that the authority of the crown should be firmly asserted."

Thus the hope of voluntary relief from Earl Grey was totally extinguished. He had before acknowledged
that the claims of the colony were unsatisfied, and had given no distinct denial of the pledge;
but his tone under these rebukes was authoritative and menacing. Passing over all he had ever
said in favor of dispersion, he adopted the sentiments, almost the words of Lord Stanley, delivered
four years before, when that nobleman defended the policy of transportation and denied the
right of the colonists of Tasmania to complain.

The people of Van Diemen's Land, on receiving this speech, met in unusual numbers, and renewed
their protests and petitions. They extended the leagues, started a year before, by Mr. Young,
a Launceston mechanic, to discountenance the employment of convicts. These compacts contained
various conditions, but they all proceeded on the presumption that petitions must be followed
by action. They were, however, difficult to observe. It was not easy to distinguish the different
orders of convicts and periods of arrival. The working-classes, to whom the confederation was
beneficial, taunted employers with inconsistency when they shrank from the unequal sacrifice.
The governor himself described the opponents of transportation, who employed convicts, in terms
of irony, and the press took up the reproach, and weekly reiterated the charge of "paltry trimming
between principle and expediency." By many hundreds the pledge was signed notwithstanding,
and it was generally kept. Many tradesmen exhibited an example of self-denial and voluntary
sacrifice to gain a public object worthy of praise.[259]

When the Neptune, rejected by the Cape, arrived in the Derwent, except Mr. Mitchell, who was
detained in bondage, the passengers were pardoned (1850). The painful exhibition of ministerial
contempt stung more than it injured the people of Tasmania, and they declared that nothing
but want of power prevented them from chasing the vessel from their waters. A solemn protest,
addressed to the people of Great Britain, was signed by the chief merchants and landholders.[260]
From this time the colonists continued to protest specially against the violation of public
faith whenever a convict vessel anchored on their shores. Scarcely any form of remonstrance
remained to be tried. For three years the colonists had repeated their petitions. The collecting
of signatures in a scattered population was attended with much difficulty and expense. To stimulate
and sustain hope through so long a struggle was the great task of the leaders of this movement.
The parents--the women of Van Diemen's Land--the clergy, singly--all sects together and in
their separate churches, kept up by petitions a constant fire. Such a topic could hardly be
expected to fix the attention of the people of England, but it derived fresh importance from
its complication with the fate of other colonies and the honor of Great Britain.

The discussion of transportation for several years annoyed and distressed respectable expirees,
who, unless intelligent and just, were disposed to murmur at arguments which seemed to glance
at themselves. The caution and discrimination of the leaders of the movement could not always
restrain the oratory of their friends, and many offensive metaphors or epithets dropped in
the warmth of speaking, not in the circumstances to be justified. Stimulated by newspaper writers,
certain educated emancipists of the metropolis proposed to form a "protection association"
(October, 1850). In their manifesto they collected all the epithets calculated to wound the
feelings of "their people," for so they called them, and drew out columns of "grievances"--in
the mock sentimental style of pseudo martyrdom. "Such," said they, "is our truly melancholy
condition: but the time has arrived to rescue our people." "We know the silent grandeur of
our strength." They proposed to put down the abolition press, to send emancipists to the Council,
and to assert the majesty of their numbers against their emigrant oppressors. But, though encouraged
by some old transportationists amongst the magistrates, and by the government press, the scheme
was too monstrous for success. The respectable expirees stood aloof, and even detested an organisation
founded on the reminiscences of crime. A few noisy meetings and inflammatory speeches were
sufficient to open the eyes of most to the gulf of caste into which their own protectors intended
to fling them. The deputations to the country districts were met in some instances coldly,
and in others with laughter. Mr. Gregson went to the assembly at Richmond, and crushed their
project by a calm exposition of its character. From this moment the Union languished, and soon
disappeared, leaving a memorable warning against penal colonization and the creation of a caste
embittered by ignorance and revenge.

It was, however, felt by the colonists that no expression of the public will would recall the
minister to a sense of justice, or command the effectual protection of parliament. The measures
adopted by the Cape were impracticable in Van Diemen's Land: if, indeed, consistent with loyalty,
they were not proper in a country where the support of the law was necessary to restrain the
convict population. Such a course was predicted and recommended by the English press, but the
ministers, better informed, felt no danger of active or passive resistance.

Whatever compassion might be felt for Van Diemen's Land in the adjacent colonies, hitherto
its treatment by the minister had produced no demonstration in its favor. It had been held
up as a warning to stimulate resistance to any participation in its fate. The continental press
pointed to its prostration with epithets of reproach, and it was described as the dust-hole
of the empire. The sympathy of its neighbors was overpowered by the stronger feeling of self-preservation.
It seemed like a mill-stone strung to the neck of the Australian world, and destined to drag
it down to perdition. Under this impression they sought to impose restrictions on the migration
of expirees and the holders of conditional pardons. The legislature of New South Wales passed
a vagrant act, which required such persons to register their names at the nearest police-office,
within a given time after their arrival. Earl Grey disallowed this ordinance, at the recommendation
of Sir William Denison, as not only in itself oppressive, but calculated to retard dispersion,
and counteract the royal prerogative. The great argument of the advocates for transportation
in New South Wales was, however, founded on the impossibility of checking indirect transportation
through Van Diemen's Land. Men landed in Tasmania, crossed over to Port Phillip, and were often
traced by their depredations.

The sense of impotence is not the least painful element of unjust suffering. This weakness
was the topic of exulting scorn with the few enemies of the popular cause. The people were
without allies or protectors, and completely subject to a despotic will.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 257: London Agency Letter, November, 1848.]

[Footnote 258: Debate, March 8, 1849. (Hansard.)]

[Footnote 259: Among the many devices to awaken attention to ministerial injustice was an association
to obtain for liberated convicts, of the incorrigible class, a passage to England. The prospectus,
signed by Drs. Browne and Gaunt, turned back the British arguments for transportation with
effect, and proposed to remit the objects of their charity to the reform societies, parishes,
and municipalities of England. This proposal was seriously discussed at Port Phillip, and nothing
prevented its partial execution but the difficulty of preserving, with the ordinary arrangements
of a vessel, the subordination of such a ship's company.]

[Footnote 260:

"The solemn Declaration of the undersigned Colonists of Van Diemen's Land, addressed to the
British nation.

"On the 5th day of April, 1850, the ship Neptune, the vessel freighted with convicts to the
Cape of Good Hope, but rejected by its inhabitants, anchored in the port of Hobart Town, under
the orders of the right honorable the secretary of state, Earl Grey.

"Our reiterated petitions presented to her Majesty's government have impressed the feelings
of every class upon the subject of transportation, and exhausted every argument which could
enforce its abolition.

"The ministers of religion, the parents of 20,000 children, the magistrates almost unanimously,
have in every form expostulated and implored; nothing that the constitution authorises remains
to be done to make known the most unhappy and oppressed condition of this country....

"We cannot resist the oppression of the British government. We are convinced that appeals to
the justice and humanity of the ministry are utterly unavailing; and that the principles which
have induced them to relieve armed or rebellious colonies, lead to the oppression or contemptuous
disregard of those who are too feeble for effectual resistance.

"We have patiently awaited redress; we have borne illegal taxes, imposed by a council of crown
nominees, and maintained by the amoval of one judge and the appointment of another; and have
appealed only to the provisions of the constitutional law of England--but in vain.

"And now, to fill up the measure of our wrong, ministers have publicly announced their contempt
for our petitions, by ordering the Neptune to our port, and discharging her passengers upon
our shores.

"In such circumstances silence would be criminal. As citizens and parents we hereby solemnly
protest against the cruelty and falsehood of the English government--against the wrongs which
threaten and oppress ourselves and our children.

"Van Diemen's Land, April, 1850."]

SECTION V.

But the day of deliverance was at hand. "The Australias are one" became the watch-word of the
abolitionists, and they adopted decisive means to propagate the cry, and secure the co-operation
of the colonies of the continent. From this idea sprang the "Australasian League"--an organization
comprehending a numerical and moral force without parallel in the present colonial empire.
At Launceston, on the 9th of August, 1850, the following resolution was adopted:--"That the
whole of the Australasian Colonies are deeply interested in preventing the continuance of Transportation
to this Island. That the Launceston Association for Promoting the cessation of Transportation
to Van Diemen's Land be hereby requested to address a letter to the respective Colonial Secretaries,
Speakers of Legislative bodies, Municipal authorities, and other influential parties in those
Colonies, earnestly requesting the co-operation to ensure their attainment of the great object
we have in view."

The feeling expressed in this resolution was instantly reciprocated in all the colonies. Speakers
at their meetings referred to the condition and hopeless prostration of Van Diemen's Land as
a general grievance. A letter, founded on this resolution, was drawn up by Messrs. West, Du
Croz, and Douglas (dated August 26), under the instructions of the "Launceston Association,"
the first formed in the colonies. It was signed by the chairman, Rev. Dr. Browne, senior-chaplain
of Launceston. After tracing the course of the British government, it proceeded:--"As a last
resource we turn to our fellow-colonists who, united to us by the strictest ties, are liable
to the same wrongs; and who will not be indifferent spectators of sufferings which they may
ultimately share. If you look at the chart of Van Diemen's Land you will perceive her geographical
position establishes a relation to the adjacent colonies which no laws can disown and no time
dissolve. A few hours convey vessels from our shores to the ports of Victoria, New South Wales,
and South Australia; and a few days' sail to New Zealand, and thence to the islands that crowd
the Pacific Ocean. Her majesty's ministers have taught the communities established in this
portion of the empire that their ultimate interests are ONE: that upon the public spirit, intelligence,
and virtue of each, in no small measure, depend the happiness and prosperity of all. We remind
you that, in twenty years from the present moment, should transportation continue, and the
annual number remain stationary, 70,000 or 80,000 convicted persons will have passed through
Van Diemen's Land into the neighbouring colonies. They will consist of men not only originally
depraved: all will have gone through the demoralizing probation of public gangs: they will
all have dwelt, for several years, in exclusively convict society, where every prevailing sympathy
must be tainted with the habits of crime. This island will not be a filter; but the accumulation
of moral wretchedness will unavoidably contaminate every mind, and stamp on every character
the impression of its peculiar constitution. The sacrifice of this colony will not, therefore,
exempt the neighbouring settlements from any portion of the mischief incident to direct transportation.
They will receive the prisoners later in life, but deteriorated in character. Evil associations
and evil men become worse and worse: such is the dictate of reason, and such is the solemn
warning written in the oracles of God. If, then, your colony had cause to protest against the
infliction of this evil in a limited degree, how much stronger must be your opposition to a
system which will bring into your streets, your houses, your hospitals and prisons, the crime,
insanity, decrepitude, and pauperism ever consequent on transportation, aggravated by transmission
through a country in moral ruin. Were we to appeal to a principle of selfishness in addressing
our countrymen, we might remind you that the reputation of this entire hemisphere is compromised
by the condition of Van Diemen's Land. The nice geographical distinctions which colonists make
are lost in the distance. As your vessels enter foreign ports, the line which divides your
population from ours fails to distinguish them. We have heard with regret, and not without
humiliation, that the British name, every where respectable until now, has ceased to insure
to many, who have never forfeited its sanction, the common confidence of foreign nations. That
a petty state, but of yesterday, has initiated laws intended to stigmatise all the inhabitants
of the southern world, and attributing to the whole the character of convictism. A more serious
consideration is the positive injury inflicted upon the islanders of the Southern Ocean by
scattering among them desperate men who have been perfected in all the arts of wickedness,
and who are placed within reach of an interesting and rising people, whom they too often shock
by their vices and oppress by their crimes. We submit, sir, to your humanity as a British fellow
subject, and to your discretion as a christian magistrate, the case of this country. In the
mutation of human affairs, the arm of oppression, which has smitten us with desolation, may
strike at your social well-being. Communities allied by blood, language, and commerce, cannot
long suffer alone. We conjure you, therefore, by the unity of colonial interests--as well as
by the obligations which bind all men to intercede with the strong and unjust on behalf of
the feeble and oppressed--to exert your influence to the intent that transportation to Van
Diemen's Land may for ever cease."

The colonial office at first did not deny, what indeed was unquestionable, that such hopes
had been given, and not until twelve months after Lord Grey maintained that his discretion
was not limited by his promise. Mr. Jackson again remonstrated with the minister on behalf
of the colony. Earl Grey directed Mr. Hawes to assure him the government earnestly desired
to meet the wishes of the inhabitants of Van Diemen's Land for the discontinuance of transportation
(March, 17, 1849). The opinion of British legislators of high pretensions having confirmed
the colonial interpretation, Earl Grey made another effort to recover New South Wales. He once
more instructed Sir C. Fitz Roy to reopen the discussion (Nov. 19, 1849), and a message for
this purpose was sent to the legislature (June, 1850). A new election meantime occurred, and
the people, supposing the question irrevocably settled, had exacted no pledges from the members.
Mr. Lamb, then a crown nominee, proposed (August, 1850), a series of resolutions confirming
the previous decision, and declaring that tranquillity could only be restored by revoking "the
order in council." The debate on these resolutions was postponed until the 27th of September,
when it was understood counter propositions would be submitted.

The proposal to revive transportation in New South Wales was under discussion when the speech
of Earl Grey's reached the colonies. The people were called together to consult on their own
affairs and naturally turned to the policy of government as exhibited in Tasmania. The resolution
of the 9th of August obtained an immediate response, and gave a new aspect to the agitation.
The great Sydney meeting (September 16) "pledged themselves to co-operate with their brethren
in Van Diemen's Land;" and an association then formed for preventing the revival of transportation
opened a channel of communication. The Sydney Herald, the chief organ of the abolition cause,
remarked, "the best way of dealing with this and all other evasions is that suggested by the
people of Van Diemen's Land, the formation of a great Australian confederacy" (September 16).
The people of Port Phillip "tendered their deep sympathy and hearty concurrence and co-operation,"
and appointed a provisional committee to take such measures as might be deemed necessary to
obtain complete redress. The unity of the colonies became thenceforth the favorite topic, and
nothing remained but to give to this important sentiment a practical direction. Meanwhile (1st
October), the council of New South Wales decided on the despatch of Earl Grey, so far as related
to themselves. An amendment of Mr. M'Arthur, to receive selected exiles with three emigrants
for each, although supported by the eloquence of Wentworth, was defeated, and Mr. Lamb's motion
carried without a division. The abolitionists had made efforts to secure unexampled demonstrations
without, and to determine the question for ever. They held meetings daily, and called into
action all the agents of political agitation. The ladies imitated the mothers and daughters
of Van Diemen's Land, and petitioned. The members on the popular side were encouraged by the
countenance of the bishops and clergy of all persuasions. The judges gave the weight of their
experience on the same side. Five hundred persons memorialised the council in favor of transportation.
Thirty-six thousand protested against it. The Port Phillip members who went up to Sydney on
this errand alone, to secure a majority of the side of abolition, were met by the citizens
at the water side and escorted in triumph. The debates were more prolonged than any known before--Australian
eloquence exhausted the topic, and satisfied the public judgment for ever. Mr. Wentworth in
supporting the amendment yet declared his aversion to transportation, and his belief that nothing
but a powerful confederation of the colonies would prevail against it.[261] The governor was
neutral: the official members of the house withdrew: but the attorney-general rose from the
deserted benches, and claiming to perform a duty as a citizen who had watched transportation
in all its stages and results, gave an irresistible testimony on the side of social freedom.

A common interest in the liberation of Tasmania being thus avowed by the continental colonies,
it became necessary to settle the principles of their confederation. The Rev. John West of
Launceston, who had first mooted the measure, was deputed to consult with the colonists resident
at Hobart Town. Meetings were accordingly held at the dwelling house of Mr. Hopkins of that
city during several weeks, and the whole question of transportation in its colonial aspect
was largely discussed. An impression seemed to prevail that the theory of dispersion, as originally
propounded by Earl Grey, might have been beneficial to the empire and desirable for the convicts,
and but slightly injurious to the colonies. It was clear, however, that the resolution of the
free colonies was irrevocable, and that the continuance of transportation would pour an incessant
and destructive stream of crime into Van Diemen's Land. Nor was it possible to make common
cause with the adjacent communities but by supporting the object of their local resistance.
Without reference to theories no longer practicable, an agreement was drawn up by Mr. Pitcairn,
and signed by the gentlemen present, in the following terms:--"We the undersigned, deeply impressed
by the evils which have arisen from the transportation of the criminals of Great Britain to
the Australian colonies, declare that transportation to any of the colonies ought for ever
to cease, and we do hereby pledge ourselves to use all lawful means to procure its abolition--Robert
Pitcairn, Thomas D. Chapman, Henry Hopkins, G. C. Clarke, Joseph Allport, John West, F. Haller,
G. W. Walker, William Rout, Henry Smith, P. T. Smith, Robert Officer."

Having thus secured concurrence in the object to be sought, the initiation of practical measures
was remitted to the Association of Launceston. At an adjourned meeting of that body, on 10th
October, the secretary, Mr. Crookes, was instructed to propose a conference of delegates from
each of the colonies, to be held at Victoria. This proposal was instantly adopted by the abolitionists
of Melbourne: the mayor was requested to forward invitations, and to fix the time of meeting
for January, 1851. The people of New South Wales and South Australia found it inconvenient
to comply with this arrangement, but expressed the most cordial interest in its issue. The
Associations of Hobart Town and Launceston selected, as their delegates, the Rev. J. West and
W. P. Weston, Esq., who, for some years, had been actively engaged in the struggle against
transportation. A public breakfast was given by their constituents at the port of embarkation,
at which Mr. Sharland presided. The delegates explained their views. They were going forth
to change the policy of a mighty empire. "We," said they, "assert that a community should deal
with its own crime; at least, so deal with it that, in its disposal, it shall not injure those
who have never offended,--so that, at least, the honest labourer shall not be brought into
unfavorable competition with the hardened criminal,--so that, at all events, our sons shall
not be driven from their homes to seek employment in distant lands, there to meet suspicion
and contempt." They disclaimed all intentions inconsistent with constitutional loyalty, and
all weapons but those of justice and truth. "We are a loyal people, and have given abundant
proof of our loyalty, but it is not an unalterable principle. There is an old proverb: 'The
sweetest wine makes the sourest vinegar.'" On the departure of the delegates (Jan. 15, 1851)
they were attended by the Launceston Association and a large concourse of people. The vessels
in the harbour were decorated with their colours, and the whole scene was imposing. Three cheers
were given for the Australasian Conference, and three for the Queen. As the vessel moved from
the wharf, the band struck up the air which well expressed the feelings of the moment--"Rule
Britannia: Britons never shall be slaves." "In a few weeks," said a spectator, "the Australasian
League will be a great fact--an epoch in the history of Australia. We have seen the beginning
of the end."

When the delegates landed at Victoria they were warmly welcomed. An address was read and presented
to them by the mayor, Mr. Westgarth, the member for Melbourne, Mr. Stawell, and other gentlemen
of the association. "We bid you," said they, "God speed, in the high and holy mission on which
you come. Rest assured that the colonists of Victoria will go with you heart and hand, and
they will not cease their efforts until the emancipation of the Australian colonies from the
oppression of British crime shall be fully accomplished." "You," said the delegates in reply,
"can confer no greater honor on the province that bears the name of Victoria, than by initiating
measures which may assure the Australian world that that illustrious name shall everywhere
be the guarantee of justice and truth." The delegates and the local association met in the
town council chamber, and concerted the plans of future action. After several protracted sittings
the terms of confederation were settled, and a "LEAGUE AND SOLEMN ENGAGEMENT" formed for the
Australian world.[262]

This covenant bound the subscribers to reject convict labour afterwards arriving; to employ
their powers electoral, official, and legislative, for the extinction of transportation; and
to afford their utmost assistance to all who might suffer in the lawful promotion of the cause.
Another article, pledging non-intercourse with obstinate transportationists, was expunged on
the motion of Messrs. West and Stawell, as scarcely within the range of moral force, and needless
in the state of public feeling. To frame a confederation securing perfect independence of action
in the separate colonies, and the effective co-operation of all, was a more difficult task.
This, was, however, fully accomplished. The members, admitted by subscription alone, elected
the provincial councils, who appointed their delegates. These formed the general conference.
This body enacted the rules of united operation; they appointed an executive board to carry
them out, and nominated gentlemen in London to direct operations in Great Britain. The local
councils retaining control over the funds collected within their bounds were authorised to
contribute for common purposes, and to appoint paid delegates to carry home their remonstrances
to the English government and people. Such was the constitution of the League, which may hereafter
suggest the union of the colonies under the sanction of the crown. The delegates adopted addresses
to the British and the Australian public. To the colonies they depicted the vast moment of
this agitation, and invoked their instant and earnest aid, closing with these solemn appeals:
"Ponder deeply, fellow colonists of Australia, the prospect that lies before you. Consider
well the moral and even the merely economical relations of the question. Reflect on the subject
of the administration of justice, not only with reference to its enormous expense, but also
as to the social effect of the ceaseless and weary labours of our criminal courts. Reflect
on the vast and gloomy gaols that must meet our eyes in a noble and fruitful land, where prosperity
should have banished almost the remembrance of crime; on the arrays of our police that ever
remind us of the noxious elements of our communities; and think, too, of our daily press that
might edify a virtuous public by accounts of incessant progress and well doing, but which,
faithful to the cause of truth, must ever teem with the harrowing evidence of the depravity
of our fellow-beings. And again turn to the scene that so frequently closes upon the career
of the convict. Consider the helpless pauperism of improvidence; constitutions ruined by vice
and profligacy; asylums and hospitals overflowing with degraded and wretched outcasts, descending
to the grave without respect and without sympathy, quitting a world which they had only dishonoured
and abused."

"In conclusion, fellow colonists, with reference to this momentous question, let us not argue
with the home government either on the law of the case, whether that be with them or with us,
or on the relative power of the contending parties. The accidents of law or force, whichever
way they might prevail, can never remedy the social disorders we complain of. Let us then represent
to the British government, to the British parliament, and to the British public, that in the
present state and prospects of the world, it is a great moral obligation on the part of our
parent state, not to eject her criminals into other societies already charged with their own,
but to retain and manage them within herself."

In their address to the united kingdom they united remonstrance with warning: "We ask our fellow
countrymen" said they, "to look at the map of the world; to measure the distance between England
and her Australian dependencies; to mark their geographical relations with gigantic empires;
and to estimate aright their future importance as elements of her wealth, greatness, and glory.
If the colonists are compelled to own that their interests may be ruined by an official despatch--that
their name and fame may be dishonoured, to relieve the gaols of Great Britain--if their youth
cannot visit any country under an Australian flag without being made to feel that they were
born in a degraded section of the globe, we are at a loss to imagine what advantages conferred
by the sovereignty of Great Britain can compensate for the stigma of its brand."

"We address the words of supplication, not of threatening. A few short years, and that which
is now a grievance will grow into a quarrel. By instant concession, an act of justice will
become a monument of imperial clemency. But these colonies are solemnly pledged, each to the
other, by their mutual interests,--their future destinies,--their fellowship of weal and woe,--and
now by their League and Solemn Engagement, to achieve the freedom of their common country."

Having arranged the plan of action, the association convened a meeting of the Victorians. On
the memorable 1st of February, 1851, the league was solemnly inaugurated, being signed by the
Tasmanian delegates, and by the mayor, William Nicholson, Esq., William Westgarth, Esq., M.L.C.,
and Montgomery Bell, Esq., alderman, as delegates for Melbourne. This done, a banner of deep
blue, spangled with the Southern cross, adorned with the national colors, and bordered with
white on which the date of the confederation was traced in letters of gold, was unfurled and
greeted with the loud acclamations of the assembly. A council of nine was afterwards elected
by ballot, composed of the most eminent citizens, the mayor being president.[263]

It was determined to raise £20,000 as a league fund in the Australian colonies. Warmed by the
advice and example of Mr. Bell, the opulent supporters of the cause resolved to take the chief
burden on themselves. The delegates for Melbourne each subscribed one hundred guineas. Mr.
Moor, the member for Port Phillip, added fifty to this sum as a special token of his sympathy
with Tasmania. Thirty houses of business followed with one hundred guineas each. The mayor
of Geelong, Dr. Thompson, set an example of similar liberality. A thousand persons met the
delegates in that town; formed their own council, and embraced the league with enthusiasm.
In less than a month nearly £7,000 was subscribed in Victoria alone.

