Above all I must guard those entrusted by nature and fate to my especial care. And surely,
if among all my fellow-creatures I were to select those who might stand forth examples of the
greatness and goodness of man, I could choose no other than those allied to me by the most
sacred ties. Some from among the family of man must survive, and these should be among the
survivors; that should be my task--to accomplish it my own life were a small sacrifice. There
then in that castle--in Windsor Castle, birth-place of Idris and my babes, should be the haven
and retreat for the wrecked bark of human society. Its forest should be our world--its garden
afford us food; within its walls I would establish the shaken throne of health. I was an outcast
and a vagabond, when Adrian gently threw over me the silver net of love and civilization, and
linked me inextricably to human charities and human excellence. I was one, who, though an aspirant
after good, and an ardent lover of wisdom, was yet unenrolled in any list of worth, when Idris,
the princely born, who was herself the personification of all that was divine in woman, she
who walked the earth like a poet's dream, as a carved goddess endued with sense, or pictured
saint stepping from the canvas--she, the most worthy, chose me, and gave me herself--a priceless
gift.

During several hours I continued thus to meditate, till hunger and fatigue brought me back
to the passing hour, then marked by long shadows cast from the descending sun. I had wandered
towards Bracknel, far to the west of Windsor. The feeling of perfect health which I enjoyed,
assured me that I was free from contagion. I remembered that Idris had been kept in ignorance
of my proceedings. She might have heard of my return from London, and my visit to Bolter's
Lock, which, connected with my continued absence, might tend greatly to alarm her. I returned
to Windsor by the Long Walk, and passing through the town towards the Castle, I found it in
a state of agitation and disturbance.

"It is too late to be ambitious," says Sir Thomas Browne. Upon this text many fanatics arose,
who prophesied that the end of time was come. The spirit of superstition had birth, from the
wreck of our hopes, and antics wild and dangerous were played on the great theatre, while the
remaining particle of futurity dwindled into a point in the eyes of the prognosticators. Weak-spirited
women died of fear as they listened to their denunciations; men of robust form and seeming
strength fell into idiotcy and madness, racked by the dread of coming eternity. A man of this
kind was now pouring forth his eloquent despair among the inhabitants of Windsor. The scene
of the morning, and my visit to the dead, which had been spread abroad, had alarmed the country-people,
so they had become fit instruments to be played upon by a maniac.

The poor wretch had lost his young wife and lovely infant by the plague. He was a mechanic;
and, rendered unable to attend to the occupation which supplied his necessities, famine was
added to his other miseries. He left the chamber which contained his wife and child--wife and
child no more, but "dead earth upon the earth"--wild with hunger, watching and grief, his diseased
fancy made him believe himself sent by heaven to preach the end of time to the world. He entered
the churches, and foretold to the congregations their speedy removal to the vaults below. He
appeared like the forgotten spirit of the time in the theatres, and bade the spectators go
home and die. He had been seized and confined; he had escaped and wandered from London among
the neighbouring towns, and, with frantic gestures and thrilling words, he unveiled to each
their hidden fears, and gave voice to the soundless thought they dared not syllable. He stood
under the arcade of the town-hall of Windsor, and from this elevation harangued a trembling crowd.

"Hear, O ye inhabitants of the earth," he cried, "hear thou, all seeing, but most pitiless
Heaven! hear thou too, O tempest-tossed heart, which breathes out these words, yet faints beneath
their meaning! Death is among us! The earth is beautiful and flower-bedecked, but she is our
grave! The clouds of heaven weep for us--the pageantry of the stars is but our funeral torchlight.
Grey headed men, ye hoped for yet a few years in your long-known abode--but the lease is up,
you must remove--children, ye will never reach maturity, even now the small grave is dug for
ye-- mothers, clasp them in your arms, one death embraces you!"

Shuddering, he stretched out his hands, his eyes cast up, seemed bursting from their sockets,
while he appeared to follow shapes, to us invisible, in the yielding air--"There they are,"
he cried, "the dead! They rise in their shrouds, and pass in silent procession towards the
far land of their doom--their bloodless lips move not--their shadowy limbs are void of motion,
while still they glide onwards. We come," he exclaimed, springing forwards, "for what should
we wait? Haste, my friends, apparel yourselves in the court-dress of death. Pestilence will
usher you to his presence. Why thus long? they, the good, the wise, and the beloved, are gone
before. Mothers, kiss you last--husbands, protectors no more, lead on the partners of your
death! Come, O come! while the dear ones are yet in sight, for soon they will pass away, and
we never never shall join them more."

From such ravings as these, he would suddenly become collected, and with unexaggerated but
terrific words, paint the horrors of the time; describe with minute detail, the effects of
the plague on the human frame, and tell heart-breaking tales of the snapping of dear affinities--the
gasping horror of despair over the death-bed of the last beloved--so that groans and even shrieks
burst from the crowd. One man in particular stood in front, his eyes fixt on the prophet, his
mouth open, his limbs rigid, while his face changed to various colours, yellow, blue, and green,
through intense fear. The maniac caught his glance, and turned his eye on him-- one has heard
of the gaze of the rattle-snake, which allures the trembling victim till he falls within his
jaws. The maniac became composed; his person rose higher; authority beamed from his countenance.
He looked on the peasant, who began to tremble, while he still gazed; his knees knocked together;
his teeth chattered. He at last fell down in convulsions. "That man has the plague," said the
maniac calmly. A shriek burst from the lips of the poor wretch; and then sudden motionlessness
came over him; it was manifest to all that he was dead.

Cries of horror filled the place--every one endeavoured to effect his escape--in a few minutes
the market place was cleared--the corpse lay on the ground; and the maniac, subdued and exhausted,
sat beside it, leaning his gaunt cheek upon his thin hand. Soon some people, deputed by the
magistrates, came to remove the body; the unfortunate being saw a jailor in each--he fled precipitately,
while I passed onwards to the Castle.

Death, cruel and relentless, had entered these beloved walls. An old servant, who had nursed
Idris in infancy, and who lived with us more on the footing of a revered relative than a domestic,
had gone a few days before to visit a daughter, married, and settled in the neighbourhood of
London. On the night of her return she sickened of the plague. From the haughty and unbending
nature of the Countess of Windsor, Idris had few tender filial associations with her. This
good woman had stood in the place of a mother, and her very deficiencies of education and knowledge,
by rendering her humble and defenceless, endeared her to us--she was the especial favourite
of the children. I found my poor girl, there is no exaggeration in the expression, wild with
grief and dread. She hung over the patient in agony, which was not mitigated when her thoughts
wandered towards her babes, for whom she feared infection. My arrival was like the newly discovered
lamp of a lighthouse to sailors, who are weathering some dangerous point. She deposited her
appalling doubts in my hands; she relied on my judgment, and was comforted by my participation
in her sorrow. Soon our poor nurse expired; and the anguish of suspense was changed to deep
regret, which though at first more painful, yet yielded with greater readiness to my consolations.
Sleep, the sovereign balm, at length steeped her tearful eyes in forgetfulness.

She slept; and quiet prevailed in the Castle, whose inhabitants were hushed to repose. I was
awake, and during the long hours of dead night, my busy thoughts worked in my brain, like ten
thousand mill-wheels, rapid, acute, untameable. All slept--all England slept; and from my window,
commanding a wide prospect of the star-illumined country, I saw the land stretched out in placid
rest. I was awake, alive, while the brother of death possessed my race. What, if the more potent
of these fraternal deities should obtain dominion over it? The silence of midnight, to speak
truly, though apparently a paradox, rung in my ears. The solitude became intolerable--I placed
my hand on the beating heart of Idris, I bent my head to catch the sound of her breath, to
assure myself that she still existed--for a moment I doubted whether I should not awake her;
so effeminate an horror ran through my frame.--Great God! would it one day be thus? One day
all extinct, save myself, should I walk the earth alone? Were these warning voices, whose inarticulate
and oracular sense forced belief upon me? [2] Coleridge's Translation of Schiller's Wallenstein.

CHAPTER VIII.

AFTER a long interval, I am again impelled by the restless spirit within me to continue my
narration; but I must alter the mode which I have hitherto adopted. The details contained in
the foregoing pages, apparently trivial, yet each slightest one weighing like lead in the depressed
scale of human afflictions; this tedious dwelling on the sorrows of others, while my own were
only in apprehension; this slowly laying bare of my soul's wounds: this journal of death; this
long drawn and tortuous path, leading to the ocean of countless tears, awakens me again to
keen grief. I had used this history as an opiate; while it described my beloved friends, fresh
with life and glowing with hope, active assistants on the scene, I was soothed; there will
be a more melancholy pleasure in painting the end of all. But the intermediate steps, the climbing
the wall, raised up between what was and is, while I still looked back nor saw the concealed
desert beyond, is a labour past my strength. Time and experience have placed me on an height
from which I can comprehend the past as a whole; and in this way I must describe it, bringing
forward the leading incidents, and disposing light and shade so as to form a picture in whose
very darkness there will be harmony.

It would be needless to narrate those disastrous occurrences, for which a parallel might be
found in any slighter visitation of our gigantic calamity. Does the reader wish to hear of
the pest-houses, where death is the comforter--of the mournful passage of the death-cart--of
the insensibility of the worthless, and the anguish of the loving heart--of harrowing shrieks
and silence dire--of the variety of disease, desertion, famine, despair, and death? There are
many books which can feed the appetite craving for these things; let them turn to the accounts
of Boccaccio, De Foe, and Browne. The vast annihilation that has swallowed all things--the
voiceless solitude of the once busy earth--the lonely state of singleness which hems me in,
has deprived even such details of their stinging reality, and mellowing the lurid tints of
past anguish with poetic hues, I am able to escape from the mosaic of circumstance, by perceiving
and reflecting back the grouping and combined colouring of the past.

I had returned from London possessed by the idea, with the intimate feeling that it was my
first duty to secure, as well as I was able, the well-being of my family, and then to return
and take my post beside Adrian. The events that immediately followed on my arrival at Windsor
changed this view of things. The plague was not in London alone, it was every where--it came
on us, as Ryland had said, like a thousand packs of wolves, howling through the winter night,
gaunt and fierce. When once disease was introduced into the rural districts, its effects appeared
more horrible, more exigent, and more difficult to cure, than in towns. There was a companionship
in suffering there, and, the neighbours keeping constant watch on each other, and inspired
by the active benevolence of Adrian, succour was afforded, and the path of destruction smoothed.
But in the country, among the scattered farm-houses, in lone cottages, in fields, and barns,
tragedies were acted harrowing to the soul, unseen, unheard, unnoticed. Medical aid was less
easily procured, food was more difficult to obtain, and human beings, unwithheld by shame,
for they were unbeheld of their fellows, ventured on deeds of greater wickedness, or gave way
more readily to their abject fears.

Deeds of heroism also occurred, whose very mention swells the heart and brings tears into the
eyes. Such is human nature, that beauty and deformity are often closely linked. In reading
history we are chiefly struck by the generosity and self-devotion that follow close on the
heels of crime, veiling with supernal flowers the stain of blood. Such acts were not wanting
to adorn the grim train that waited on the progress of the plague.

The inhabitants of Berkshire and Bucks had been long aware that the plague was in London, in
Liverpool, Bristol, Manchester, York, in short, in all the more populous towns of England.
They were not however the less astonished and dismayed when it appeared among themselves. They
were impatient and angry in the midst of terror. They would do something to throw off the clinging
evil, and, while in action, they fancied that a remedy was applied. The inhabitants of the
smaller towns left their houses, pitched tents in the fields, wandering separate from each
other careless of hunger or the sky's inclemency, while they imagined that they avoided the
death-dealing disease. The farmers and cottagers, on the contrary, struck with the fear of
solitude, and madly desirous of medical assistance, flocked into the towns.

But winter was coming, and with winter, hope. In August, the plague had appeared in the country
of England, and during September it made its ravages. Towards the end of October it dwindled
away, and was in some degree replaced by a typhus, of hardly less virulence. The autumn was
warm and rainy: the infirm and sickly died off--happier they: many young people flushed with
health and prosperity, made pale by wasting malady, became the inhabitants of the grave. The
crop had failed, the bad corn, and want of foreign wines, added vigour to disease. Before Christmas
half England was under water. The storms of the last winter were renewed; but the diminished
shipping of this year caused us to feel less the tempests of the sea. The flood and storms
did more harm to continental Europe than to us--giving, as it were, the last blow to the calamities
which destroyed it. In Italy the rivers were unwatched by the diminished peasantry; and, like
wild beasts from their lair when the hunters and dogs are afar, did Tiber, Arno, and Po, rush
upon and destroy the fertility of the plains. Whole villages were carried away. Rome, and Florence,
and Pisa were overflowed, and their marble palaces, late mirrored in tranquil streams, had
their foundations shaken by their winter-gifted power. In Germany and Russia the injury was
still more momentous.

But frost would come at last, and with it a renewal of our lease of earth. Frost would blunt
the arrows of pestilence, and enchain the furious elements; and the land would in spring throw
off her garment of snow, released from her menace of destruction. It was not until February
that the desired signs of winter appeared. For three days the snow fell, ice stopped the current
of the rivers, and the birds flew out from crackling branches of the frost-whitened trees.
On the fourth morning all vanished. A south-west wind brought up rain--the sun came out, and
mocking the usual laws of nature, seemed even at this early season to burn with solsticial
force. It was no consolation, that with the first winds of March the lanes were filled with
violets, the fruit trees covered with blossoms, that the corn sprung up, and the leaves came
out, forced by the unseasonable heat. We feared the balmy air--we feared the cloudless sky,
the flower-covered earth, and delightful woods, for we looked on the fabric of the universe
no longer as our dwelling, but our tomb, and the fragrant land smelled to the apprehension
of fear like a wide church-yard.

  Pisando la tierra dura
  de continuo el hombre esta
  y cada passo que da
  es sobre su sepultura.[1]

Yet notwithstanding these disadvantages winter was breathing time; and we exerted ourselves
to make the best of it. Plague might not revive with the summer; but if it did, it should find
us prepared. It is a part of man's nature to adapt itself through habit even to pain and sorrow.
Pestilence had become a part of our future, our existence; it was to be guarded against, like
the flooding of rivers, the encroachments of ocean, or the inclemency of the sky. After long
suffering and bitter experience, some panacea might be discovered; as it was, all that received
infection died-- all however were not infected; and it became our part to fix deep the foundations,
and raise high the barrier between contagion and the sane; to introduce such order as would
conduce to the well-being of the survivors, and as would preserve hope and some portion of
happiness to those who were spectators of the still renewed tragedy. Adrian had introduced
systematic modes of proceeding in the metropolis, which, while they were unable to stop the
progress of death, yet prevented other evils, vice and folly, from rendering the awful fate
of the hour still more tremendous. I wished to imitate his example, but men are used to

 --move all together, if they move at all,[2]

and I could find no means of leading the inhabitants of scattered towns and villages, who forgot
my words as soon as they heard them not, and veered with every baffling wind, that might arise
from an apparent change of circumstance.

I adopted another plan. Those writers who have imagined a reign of peace and happiness on earth,
have generally described a rural country, where each small township was directed by the elders
and wise men. This was the key of my design. Each village, however small, usually contains
a leader, one among themselves whom they venerate, whose advice they seek in difficulty, and
whose good opinion they chiefly value. I was immediately drawn to make this observation by
occurrences that presented themselves to my personal experience.

In the village of Little Marlow an old woman ruled the community. She had lived for some years
in an alms-house, and on fine Sundays her threshold was constantly beset by a crowd, seeking
her advice and listening to her admonitions. She had been a soldier's wife, and had seen the
world; infirmity, induced by fevers caught in unwholesome quarters, had come on her before
its time, and she seldom moved from her little cot. The plague entered the village; and, while
fright and grief deprived the inhabitants of the little wisdom they possessed, old Martha stepped
forward and said-- "Before now I have been in a town where there was the plague."--"And you
escaped?"--"No, but I recovered."--After this Martha was seated more firmly than ever on the
regal seat, elevated by reverence and love. She entered the cottages of the sick; she relieved
their wants with her own hand; she betrayed no fear, and inspired all who saw her with some
portion of her own native courage. She attended the markets--she insisted upon being supplied
with food for those who were too poor to purchase it. She shewed them how the well-being of
each included the prosperity of all. She would not permit the gardens to be neglected, nor
the very flowers in the cottage lattices to droop from want of care. Hope, she said, was better
than a doctor's prescription, and every thing that could sustain and enliven the spirits, of
more worth than drugs and mixtures.

It was the sight of Little Marlow, and my conversations with Martha, that led me to the plan
I formed. I had before visited the manor houses and gentlemen's seats, and often found the
inhabitants actuated by the purest benevolence, ready to lend their utmost aid for the welfare
of their tenants. But this was not enough. The intimate sympathy generated by similar hopes
and fears, similar experience and pursuits, was wanting here. The poor perceived that the rich
possessed other means of preservation than those which could be partaken of by themselves,
seclusion, and, as far as circumstances permitted, freedom from care. They could not place
reliance on them, but turned with tenfold dependence to the succour and advice of their equals.
I resolved therefore to go from village to village, seeking out the rustic archon of the place,
and by systematizing their exertions, and enlightening their views, encrease both their power
and their use among their fellow-cottagers. Many changes also now occurred in these spontaneous
regal elections: depositions and abdications were frequent, while, in the place of the old
and prudent, the ardent youth would step forward, eager for action, regardless of danger. Often
too, the voice to which all listened was suddenly silenced, the helping hand cold, the sympathetic
eye closed, and the villagers feared still more the death that had selected a choice victim,
shivering in dust the heart that had beat for them, reducing to incommunicable annihilation
the mind for ever occupied with projects for their welfare.

Whoever labours for man must often find ingratitude, watered by vice and folly, spring from
the grain which he has sown. Death, which had in our younger days walked the earth like "a
thief that comes in the night," now, rising from his subterranean vault, girt with power, with
dark banner floating, came a conqueror. Many saw, seated above his vice-regal throne, a supreme
Providence, who directed his shafts, and guided his progress, and they bowed their heads in
resignation, or at least in obedience. Others perceived only a passing casualty; they endeavoured
to exchange terror for heedlessness, and plunged into licentiousness, to avoid the agonizing
throes of worst apprehension. Thus, while the wise, the good, and the prudent were occupied
by the labours of benevolence, the truce of winter produced other effects among the young,
the thoughtless, and the vicious. During the colder months there was a general rush to London
in search of amusement--the ties of public opinion were loosened; many were rich, heretofore
poor--many had lost father and mother, the guardians of their morals, their mentors and restraints.
It would have been useless to have opposed these impulses by barriers, which would only have
driven those actuated by them to more pernicious indulgencies. The theatres were open and thronged;
dance and midnight festival were frequented--in many of these decorum was violated, and the
evils, which hitherto adhered to an advanced state of civilization, were doubled. The student
left his books, the artist his study: the occupations of life were gone, but the amusements
remained; enjoyment might be protracted to the verge of the grave. All factitious colouring
disappeared--death rose like night, and, protected by its murky shadows the blush of modesty,
the reserve of pride, the decorum of prudery were frequently thrown aside as useless veils.
This was not universal. Among better natures, anguish and dread, the fear of eternal separation,
and the awful wonder produced by unprecedented calamity, drew closer the ties of kindred and
friendship. Philosophers opposed their principles, as barriers to the inundation of profligacy
or despair, and the only ramparts to protect the invaded territory of human life; the religious,
hoping now for their reward, clung fast to their creeds, as the rafts and planks which over
the tempest-vexed sea of suffering, would bear them in safety to the harbour of the Unknown
Continent. The loving heart, obliged to contract its view, bestowed its overflow of affection
in triple portion on the few that remained. Yet, even among these, the present, as an unalienable
possession, became all of time to which they dared commit the precious freight of their hopes.

The experience of immemorial time had taught us formerly to count our enjoyments by years,
and extend our prospect of life through a lengthened period of progression and decay; the long
road threaded a vast labyrinth, and the Valley of the Shadow of Death, in which it terminated,
was hid by intervening objects. But an earthquake had changed the scene--under our very feet
the earth yawned--deep and precipitous the gulph below opened to receive us, while the hours
charioted us towards the chasm. But it was winter now, and months must elapse before we are
hurled from our security. We became ephemera, to whom the interval between the rising and setting
sun was as a long drawn year of common time. We should never see our children ripen into maturity,
nor behold their downy cheeks roughen, their blithe hearts subdued by passion or care; but
we had them now--they lived, and we lived--what more could we desire? With such schooling did
my poor Idris try to hush thronging fears, and in some measure succeeded. It was not as in
summer-time, when each hour might bring the dreaded fate--until summer, we felt sure; and this
certainty, short lived as it must be, yet for awhile satisfied her maternal tenderness. I know
not how to express or communicate the sense of concentrated, intense, though evanescent transport,
that imparadized us in the present hour. Our joys were dearer because we saw their end; they
were keener because we felt, to its fullest extent, their value; they were purer because their
essence was sympathy-- as a meteor is brighter than a star, did the felicity of this winter
contain in itself the extracted delights of a long, long life.

How lovely is spring! As we looked from Windsor Terrace on the sixteen fertile counties spread
beneath, speckled by happy cottages and wealthier towns, all looked as in former years, heart-cheering
and fair.

Where was the plague? "Here--every where!" one voice of horror and dismay exclaimed, when in
the pleasant days of a sunny May the Destroyer of man brooded again over the earth, forcing
the spirit to leave its organic chrysalis, and to enter upon an untried life. With one mighty
sweep of its potent weapon, all caution, all care, all prudence were levelled low: death sat
at the tables of the great, stretched itself on the cottager's pallet, seized the dastard who
fled, quelled the brave man who resisted: despondency entered every heart, sorrow dimmed every eye.

Sights of woe now became familiar to me, and were I to tell all of anguish and pain that I
witnessed, of the despairing moans of age, and the more terrible smiles of infancy in the bosom
of horror, my reader, his limbs quivering and his hair on end, would wonder how I did not,
seized with sudden frenzy, dash myself from some precipice, and so close my eyes for ever on
the sad end of the world. But the powers of love, poetry, and creative fancy will dwell even
beside the sick of the plague, with the squalid, and with the dying. A feeling of devotion,
of duty, of a high and steady purpose, elevated me; a strange joy filled my heart. In the midst
of saddest grief I seemed to tread air, while the spirit of good shed round me an ambrosial
atmosphere, which blunted the sting of sympathy, and purified the air of sighs. If my wearied
soul flagged in its career, I thought of my loved home, of the casket that contained my treasures,
of the kiss of love and the filial caress, while my eyes were moistened by purest dew, and
my heart was at once softened and refreshed by thrilling tenderness.

Maternal affection had not rendered Idris selfish; at the beginning of our calamity she had,
with thoughtless enthusiasm, devoted herself to the care of the sick and helpless. I checked
her; and she submitted to my rule. I told her how the fear of her danger palsied my exertions,
how the knowledge of her safety strung my nerves to endurance. I shewed her the dangers which
her children incurred during her absence; and she at length agreed not to go beyond the inclosure
of the forest. Indeed, within the walls of the Castle we had a colony of the unhappy, deserted
by their relatives, and in themselves helpless, sufficient to occupy her time and attention,
while ceaseless anxiety for my welfare and the health of her children, however she strove to
curb or conceal it, absorbed all her thoughts, and undermined the vital principle. After watching
over and providing for their safety, her second care was to hide from me her anguish and tears.
Each night I returned to the Castle, and found there repose and love awaiting me. Often I waited
beside the bed of death till midnight, and through the obscurity of rainy, cloudy nights rode
many miles, sustained by one circumstance only, the safety and sheltered repose of those I
loved. If some scene of tremendous agony shook my frame and fevered my brow, I would lay my
head on the lap of Idris, and the tumultuous pulses subsided into a temperate flow --her smile
could raise me from hopelessness, her embrace bathe my sorrowing heart in calm peace. Summer
advanced, and, crowned with the sun's potent rays, plague shot her unerring shafts over the
earth. The nations beneath their influence bowed their heads, and died. The corn that sprung
up in plenty, lay in autumn rotting on the ground, while the melancholy wretch who had gone
out to gather bread for his children, lay stiff and plague-struck in the furrow. The green
woods waved their boughs majestically, while the dying were spread beneath their shade, answering
the solemn melody with inharmonious cries. The painted birds flitted through the shades; the
careless deer reposed unhurt upon the fern--the oxen and the horses strayed from their unguarded
stables, and grazed among the wheat, for death fell on man alone.

With summer and mortality grew our fears. My poor love and I looked at each other, and our
babes.--"We will save them, Idris," I said, "I will save them. Years hence we shall recount
to them our fears, then passed away with their occasion. Though they only should remain on
the earth, still they shall live, nor shall their cheeks become pale nor their sweet voices
languish." Our eldest in some degree understood the scenes passing around, and at times, he
with serious looks questioned me concerning the reason of so vast a desolation. But he was
only ten years old; and the hilarity of youth soon chased unreasonable care from his brow.
Evelyn, a laughing cherub, a gamesome infant, without idea of pain or sorrow, would, shaking
back his light curls from his eyes, make the halls re-echo with his merriment, and in a thousand
artless ways attract our attention to his play. Clara, our lovely gentle Clara, was our stay,
our solace, our delight. She made it her task to attend the sick, comfort the sorrowing, assist
the aged, and partake the sports and awaken the gaiety of the young. She flitted through the
rooms, like a good spirit, dispatched from the celestial kingdom, to illumine our dark hour
with alien splendour. Gratitude and praise marked where her footsteps had been. Yet, when she
stood in unassuming simplicity before us, playing with our children, or with girlish assiduity
performing little kind offices for Idris, one wondered in what fair lineament of her pure loveliness,
in what soft tone of her thrilling voice, so much of heroism, sagacity and active goodness resided.

The summer passed tediously, for we trusted that winter would at least check the disease. That
it would vanish altogether was an hope too dear-- too heartfelt, to be expressed. When such
a thought was heedlessly uttered, the hearers, with a gush of tears and passionate sobs, bore
witness how deep their fears were, how small their hopes. For my own part, my exertions for
the public good permitted me to observe more closely than most others, the virulence and extensive
ravages of our sightless enemy. A short month has destroyed a village, and where in May the
first person sickened, in June the paths were deformed by unburied corpses--the houses tenantless,
no smoke arising from the chimneys; and the housewife's clock marked only the hour when death
had been triumphant. From such scenes I have sometimes saved a deserted infant--sometimes led
a young and grieving mother from the lifeless image of her first born, or drawn the sturdy
labourer from childish weeping over his extinct family.

July is gone. August must pass, and by the middle of September we may hope. Each day was eagerly
counted; and the inhabitants of towns, desirous to leap this dangerous interval, plunged into
dissipation, and strove, by riot, and what they wished to imagine to be pleasure, to banish
thought and opiate despair. None but Adrian could have tamed the motley population of London,
which, like a troop of unbitted steeds rushing to their pastures, had thrown aside all minor
fears, through the operation of the fear paramount. Even Adrian was obliged in part to yield,
that he might be able, if not to guide, at least to set bounds to the license of the times.
The theatres were kept open; every place of public resort was frequented; though he endeavoured
so to modify them, as might best quiet the agitation of the spectators, and at the same time
prevent a reaction of misery when the excitement was over. Tragedies deep and dire were the
chief favourites. Comedy brought with it too great a contrast to the inner despair: when such
were attempted, it was not unfrequent for a comedian, in the midst of the laughter occasioned
by his disporportioned buffoonery, to find a word or thought in his part that jarred with his
own sense of wretchedness, and burst from mimic merriment into sobs and tears, while the spectators,
seized with irresistible sympathy, wept, and the pantomimic revelry was changed to a real exhibition
of tragic passion.

It was not in my nature to derive consolation from such scenes; from theatres, whose buffoon
laughter and discordant mirth awakened distempered sympathy, or where fictitious tears and
wailings mocked the heart-felt grief within; from festival or crowded meeting, where hilarity
sprung from the worst feelings of our nature, or such enthralment of the better ones, as impressed
it with garish and false varnish; from assemblies of mourners in the guise of revellers. Once
however I witnessed a scene of singular interest at one of the theatres, where nature overpowered
art, as an overflowing cataract will tear away the puny manufacture of a mock cascade, which
had before been fed by a small portion of its waters.

I had come to London to see Adrian. He was not at the palace; and, though the attendants did
not know whither he had gone, they did not expect him till late at night. It was between six
and seven o'clock, a fine summer afternoon, and I spent my leisure hours in a ramble through
the empty streets of London; now turning to avoid an approaching funeral, now urged by curiosity
to observe the state of a particular spot; my wanderings were instinct with pain, for silence
and desertion characterized every place I visited, and the few beings I met were so pale and
woe-begone, so marked with care and depressed by fear, that weary of encountering only signs
of misery, I began to retread my steps towards home.

I was now in Holborn, and passed by a public house filled with uproarious companions, whose
songs, laughter, and shouts were more sorrowful than the pale looks and silence of the mourner.
Such an one was near, hovering round this house. The sorry plight of her dress displayed her
poverty, she was ghastly pale, and continued approaching, first the window and then the door
of the house, as if fearful, yet longing to enter. A sudden burst of song and merriment seemed
to sting her to the heart; she murmured, "Can he have the heart?" and then mustering her courage,
she stepped within the threshold. The landlady met her in the passage; the poor creature asked,
"Is my husband here? Can I see George?"

"See him," cried the woman, "yes, if you go to him; last night he was taken with the plague,
and we sent him to the hospital."

The unfortunate inquirer staggered against a wall, a faint cry escaped her --"O! were you cruel
enough," she exclaimed, "to send him there?"

The landlady meanwhile hurried away; but a more compassionate bar-maid gave her a detailed
account, the sum of which was, that her husband had been taken ill, after a night of riot,
and sent by his boon companions with all expedition to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. I had watched
this scene, for there was a gentleness about the poor woman that interested me; she now tottered
away from the door, walking as well as she could down Holborn Hill; but her strength soon failed
her; she leaned against a wall, and her head sunk on her bosom, while her pallid cheek became
still more white. I went up to her and offered my services. She hardly looked up--"You can
do me no good," she replied; "I must go to the hospital; if I do not die before I get there."

There were still a few hackney-coaches accustomed to stand about the streets, more truly from
habit than for use. I put her in one of these, and entered with her that I might secure her
entrance into the hospital. Our way was short, and she said little; except interrupted ejaculations
of reproach that he had left her, exclamations on the unkindness of some of his friends, and
hope that she would find him alive. There was a simple, natural earnestness about her that
interested me in her fate, especially when she assured me that her husband was the best of
men,--had been so, till want of business during these unhappy times had thrown him into bad
company. "He could not bear to come home," she said, "only to see our children die. A man cannot
have the patience a mother has, with her own flesh and blood."

We were set down at St. Bartholomew's, and entered the wretched precincts of the house of disease.
The poor creature clung closer to me, as she saw with what heartless haste they bore the dead
from the wards, and took them into a room, whose half-opened door displayed a number of corpses,
horrible to behold by one unaccustomed to such scenes. We were directed to the ward where her
husband had been first taken, and still was, the nurse said, if alive. My companion looked
eagerly from one bed to the other, till at the end of the ward she espied, on a wretched bed,
a squalid, haggard creature, writhing under the torture of disease. She rushed towards him,
she embraced him, blessing God for his preservation.

The enthusiasm that inspired her with this strange joy, blinded her to the horrors about her;
but they were intolerably agonizing to me. The ward was filled with an effluvia that caused
my heart to heave with painful qualms. The dead were carried out, and the sick brought in,
with like indifference; some were screaming with pain, others laughing from the influence of
more terrible delirium; some were attended by weeping, despairing relations, others called
aloud with thrilling tenderness or reproach on the friends who had deserted them, while the
nurses went from bed to bed, incarnate images of despair, neglect, and death. I gave gold to
my luckless companion; I recommended her to the care of the attendants; I then hastened away;
while the tormentor, the imagination, busied itself in picturing my own loved ones, stretched
on such beds, attended thus. The country afforded no such mass of horrors; solitary wretches
died in the open fields; and I have found a survivor in a vacant village, contending at once
with famine and disease; but the assembly of pestilence, the banqueting hall of death, was
spread only in London.

I rambled on, oppressed, distracted by painful emotions--suddenly I found myself before Drury
Lane Theatre. The play was Macbeth--the first actor of the age was there to exert his powers
to drug with irreflection the auditors; such a medicine I yearned for, so I entered. The theatre
was tolerably well filled. Shakspeare, whose popularity was established by the approval of
four centuries, had not lost his influence even at this dread period; but was still "Ut magus,"
the wizard to rule our hearts and govern our imaginations. I came in during the interval between
the third and fourth act. I looked round on the audience; the females were mostly of the lower
classes, but the men were of all ranks, come hither to forget awhile the protracted scenes
of wretchedness, which awaited them at their miserable homes. The curtain drew up, and the
stage presented the scene of the witches' cave. The wildness and supernatural machinery of
Macbeth, was a pledge that it could contain little directly connected with our present circumstances.
Great pains had been taken in the scenery to give the semblance of reality to the impossible.
The extreme darkness of the stage, whose only light was received from the fire under the cauldron,
joined to a kind of mist that floated about it, rendered the unearthly shapes of the witches
obscure and shadowy. It was not three decrepid old hags that bent over their pot throwing in
the grim ingredients of the magic charm, but forms frightful, unreal, and fanciful. The entrance
of Hecate, and the wild music that followed, took us out of this world. The cavern shape the
stage assumed, the beetling rocks, the glare of the fire, the misty shades that crossed the
scene at times, the music in harmony with all witch-like fancies, permitted the imagination
to revel, without fear of contradiction, or reproof from reason or the heart. The entrance
of Macbeth did not destroy the illusion, for he was actuated by the same feelings that inspired
us, and while the work of magic proceeded we sympathized in his wonder and his daring, and
gave ourselves up with our whole souls to the influence of scenic delusion. I felt the beneficial
result of such excitement, in a renewal of those pleasing flights of fancy to which I had long
been a stranger. The effect of this scene of incantation communicated a portion of its power
to that which followed. We forgot that Malcolm and Macduff were mere human beings, acted upon
by such simple passions as warmed our own breasts. By slow degrees however we were drawn to
the real interest of the scene. A shudder like the swift passing of an electric shock ran through
the house, when Rosse exclaimed, in answer to "Stands Scotland where it did?"

  Alas, poor country;
  Almost afraid to know itself!

Each word struck the sense, as our life's passing bell; we feared to look at each other, but
bent our gaze on the stage, as if our eyes could fall innocuous on that alone. The person who
played the part of Rosse, suddenly became aware of the dangerous ground he trod. He was an
inferior actor, but truth now made him excellent; as he went on to announce to Macduff the
slaughter of his family, he was afraid to speak, trembling from apprehension of a burst of
grief from the audience, not from his fellow-mime. Each word was drawn out with difficulty;
real anguish painted his features; his eyes were now lifted in sudden horror, now fixed in
dread upon the ground.

A pang of tameless grief wrenched every heart, a burst of despair was echoed from every lip.--I
had entered into the universal feeling--I had been absorbed by the terrors of Rosse--I re-echoed
the cry of Macduff, and then rushed out as from an hell of torture, to find calm in the free
air and silent street.

Free the air was not, or the street silent. Oh, how I longed then for the dear soothings of
maternal Nature, as my wounded heart was still further stung by the roar of heartless merriment
from the public-house, by the sight of the drunkard reeling home, having lost the memory of
what he would find there in oblivious debauch, and by the more appalling salutations of those
melancholy beings to whom the name of home was a mockery. I ran on at my utmost speed until
I found myself I knew not how, close to Westminster Abbey, and was attracted by the deep and
swelling tone of the organ. I entered with soothing awe the lighted chancel, and listened to
the solemn religious chaunt, which spoke peace and hope to the unhappy. The notes, freighted
with man's dearest prayers, re-echoed through the dim aisles, and the bleeding of the soul's
wounds was staunched by heavenly balm. In spite of the misery I deprecated, and could not understand;
in spite of the cold hearths of wide London, and the corpse-strewn fields of my native land;
in spite of all the variety of agonizing emotions I had that evening experienced, I thought
that in reply to our melodious adjurations, the Creator looked down in compassion and promise
of relief; the awful peal of the heaven-winged music seemed fitting voice wherewith to commune
with the Supreme; calm was produced by its sound, and by the sight of many other human creatures
offering up prayers and submission with me. A sentiment approaching happiness followed the
total resignation of one's being to the guardianship of the world's ruler. Alas! with the failing
of this solemn strain, the elevated spirit sank again to earth. Suddenly one of the choristers
died--he was lifted from his desk, the vaults below were hastily opened--he was consigned with
a few muttered prayers to the darksome cavern, abode of thousands who had gone before--now
wide yawning to receive even all who fulfilled the funeral rites. In vain I would then have
turned from this scene, to darkened aisle or lofty dome, echoing with melodious praise. In
the open air alone I found relief; among nature's beauteous works, her God reassumed his attribute
of benevolence, and again I could trust that he who built up the mountains, planted the forests,
and poured out the rivers, would erect another state for lost humanity, where we might awaken
again to our affections, our happiness, and our faith.

Fortunately for me those circumstances were of rare occurrence that obliged me to visit London,
and my duties were confined to the rural district which our lofty castle overlooked; and here
labour stood in the place of pastime, to occupy such of the country people as were sufficiently
exempt from sorrow or disease. My endeavours were directed towards urging them to their usual
attention to their crops, and to the acting as if pestilence did not exist. The mower's scythe
was at times heard; yet the joyless haymakers after they had listlessly turned the grass, forgot
to cart it; the shepherd, when he had sheared his sheep, would let the wool lie to be scattered
by the winds, deeming it useless to provide clothing for another winter. At times however the
spirit of life was awakened by these employments; the sun, the refreshing breeze, the sweet
smell of the hay, the rustling leaves and prattling rivulets brought repose to the agitated
bosom, and bestowed a feeling akin to happiness on the apprehensive. Nor, strange to say, was
the time without its pleasures. Young couples, who had loved long and hopelessly, suddenly
found every impediment removed, and wealth pour in from the death of relatives. The very danger
drew them closer. The immediate peril urged them to seize the immediate opportunity; wildly
and passionately they sought to know what delights existence afforded, before they yielded
to death, and

  Snatching their pleasures with rough strife
  Thorough the iron gates of life,[4]

they defied the conquering pestilence to destroy what had been, or to erase even from their
death-bed thoughts the sentiment of happiness which had been theirs.

One instance of this kind came immediately under our notice, where a high-born girl had in
early youth given her heart to one of meaner extraction. He was a schoolfellow and friend of
her brother's, and usually spent a part of the holidays at the mansion of the duke her father.
They had played together as children, been the confidants of each other's little secrets, mutual
aids and consolers in difficulty and sorrow. Love had crept in, noiseless, terrorless at first,
till each felt their life bound up in the other, and at the same time knew that they must part.
Their extreme youth, and the purity of their attachment, made them yield with less resistance
to the tyranny of circumstances. The father of the fair Juliet separated them; but not until
the young lover had promised to remain absent only till he had rendered himself worthy of her,
and she had vowed to preserve her virgin heart, his treasure, till he returned to claim and
possess it.

Plague came, threatening to destroy at once the aim of the ambitious and the hopes of love.
Long the Duke of L----derided the idea that there could be danger while he pursued his plans
of cautious seclusion; and he so far succeeded, that it was not till this second summer, that
the destroyer, at one fell stroke, overthrew his precautions, his security, and his life. Poor
Juliet saw one by one, father, mother, brothers, and sisters, sicken and die. Most of the servants
fled on the first appearance of disease, those who remained were infected mortally; no neighbour
or rustic ventured within the verge of contagion. By a strange fatality Juliet alone escaped,
and she to the last waited on her relatives, and smoothed the pillow of death. The moment at
length came, when the last blow was given to the last of the house: the youthful survivor of
her race sat alone among the dead. There was no living being near to soothe her, or withdraw
her from this hideous company. With the declining heat of a September night, a whirlwind of
storm, thunder, and hail, rattled round the house, and with ghastly harmony sung the dirge
of her family. She sat upon the ground absorbed in wordless despair, when through the gusty
wind and bickering rain she thought she heard her name called. Whose could that familiar voice
be? Not one of her relations, for they lay glaring on her with stony eyes. Again her name was
syllabled, and she shuddered as she asked herself, am I becoming mad, or am I dying, that I
hear the voices of the departed? A second thought passed, swift as an arrow, into her brain;
she rushed to the window; and a flash of lightning shewed to her the expected vision, her lover
in the shrubbery beneath; joy lent her strength to descend the stairs, to open the door, and
then she fainted in his supporting arms.

A thousand times she reproached herself, as with a crime, that she should revive to happiness
with him. The natural clinging of the human mind to life and joy was in its full energy in
her young heart; she gave herself impetuously up to the enchantment: they were married; and
in their radiant features I saw incarnate, for the last time, the spirit of love, of rapturous
sympathy, which once had been the life of the world.

I envied them, but felt how impossible it was to imbibe the same feeling, now that years had
multiplied my ties in the world. Above all, the anxious mother, my own beloved and drooping
Idris, claimed my earnest care; I could not reproach the anxiety that never for a moment slept
in her heart, but I exerted myself to distract her attention from too keen an observation of
the truth of things, of the near and nearer approaches of disease, misery, and death, of the
wild look of our attendants as intelligence of another and yet another death reached us; for
to the last something new occurred that seemed to transcend in horror all that had gone before.
Wretched beings crawled to die under our succouring roof; the inhabitants of the Castle decreased
daily, while the survivors huddled together in fear, and, as in a famine-struck boat, the sport
of the wild, interminable waves, each looked in the other's face, to guess on whom the death-lot
would next fall. All this I endeavoured to veil, so that it might least impress my Idris; yet,
as I have said, my courage survived even despair: I might be vanquished, but I would not yield.

One day, it was the ninth of September, seemed devoted to every disaster, to every harrowing
incident. Early in the day, I heard of the arrival of the aged grandmother of one of our servants
at the Castle. This old woman had reached her hundredth year; her skin was shrivelled, her
form was bent and lost in extreme decrepitude; but as still from year to year she continued
in existence, out-living many younger and stronger, she began to feel as if she were to live
for ever. The plague came, and the inhabitants of her village died. Clinging, with the dastard
feeling of the aged, to the remnant of her spent life, she had, on hearing that the pestilence
had come into her neighbourhood, barred her door, and closed her casement, refusing to communicate
with any. She would wander out at night to get food, and returned home, pleased that she had
met no one, that she was in no danger from the plague. As the earth became more desolate, her
difficulty in acquiring sustenance increased; at first, her son, who lived near, had humoured
her by placing articles of food in her way: at last he died. But, even though threatened by
famine, her fear of the plague was paramount; and her greatest care was to avoid her fellow
creatures. She grew weaker each day, and each day she had further to go. The night before,
she had reached Datchet; and, prowling about, had found a baker's shop open and deserted. Laden
with spoil, she hastened to return, and lost her way. The night was windless, hot, and cloudy;
her load became too heavy for her; and one by one she threw away her loaves, still endeavouring
to get along, though her hobbling fell into lameness, and her weakness at last into inability
to move.

She lay down among the tall corn, and fell asleep. Deep in midnight, she was awaked by a rustling
near her; she would have started up, but her stiff joints refused to obey her will. A low moan
close to her ear followed, and the rustling increased; she heard a smothered voice breathe
out, Water, Water! several times; and then again a sigh heaved from the heart of the sufferer.
The old woman shuddered, she contrived at length to sit upright; but her teeth chattered, and
her knees knocked together--close, very close, lay a half-naked figure, just discernible in
the gloom, and the cry for water and the stifled moan were again uttered. Her motions at length
attracted the attention of her unknown companion; her hand was seized with a convulsive violence
that made the grasp feel like iron, the fingers like the keen teeth of a trap.--"At last you
are come!" were the words given forth--but this exertion was the last effort of the dying--the
joints relaxed, the figure fell prostrate, one low moan, the last, marked the moment of death.
Morning broke; and the old woman saw the corpse, marked with the fatal disease, close to her;
her wrist was livid with the hold loosened by death. She felt struck by the plague; her aged
frame was unable to bear her away with sufficient speed; and now, believing herself infected,
she no longer dreaded the association of others; but, as swiftly as she might, came to her
grand-daughter, at Windsor Castle, there to lament and die. The sight was horrible; still she
clung to life, and lamented her mischance with cries and hideous groans; while the swift advance
of the disease shewed, what proved to be the fact, that she could not survive many hours.

While I was directing that the necessary care should be taken of her, Clara came in; she was
trembling and pale; and, when I anxiously asked her the cause of her agitation, she threw herself
into my arms weeping and exclaiming--"Uncle, dearest uncle, do not hate me for ever! I must
tell you, for you must know, that Evelyn, poor little Evelyn"--her voice was choked by sobs.
The fear of so mighty a calamity as the loss of our adored infant made the current of my blood
pause with chilly horror; but the remembrance of the mother restored my presence of mind. I
sought the little bed of my darling; he was oppressed by fever; but I trusted, I fondly and
fearfully trusted, that there were no symptoms of the plague. He was not three years old, and
his illness appeared only one of those attacks incident to infancy. I watched him long--his
heavy half-closed lids, his burning cheeks and restless twining of his small fingers--the fever
was violent, the torpor complete--enough, without the greater fear of pestilence, to awaken
alarm. Idris must not see him in this state. Clara, though only twelve years old, was rendered,
through extreme sensibility, so prudent and careful, that I felt secure in entrusting the charge
of him to her, and it was my task to prevent Idris from observing their absence. I administered
the fitting remedies, and left my sweet niece to watch beside him, and bring me notice of any
change she should observe.

I then went to Idris, contriving in my way, plausible excuses for remaining all day in the
Castle, and endeavouring to disperse the traces of care from my brow. Fortunately she was not
alone. I found Merrival, the astronomer, with her. He was far too long sighted in his view
of humanity to heed the casualties of the day, and lived in the midst of contagion unconscious
of its existence. This poor man, learned as La Place, guileless and unforeseeing as a child,
had often been on the point of starvation, he, his pale wife and numerous offspring, while
he neither felt hunger, nor observed distress. His astronomical theories absorbed him; calculations
were scrawled with coal on the bare walls of his garret: a hard-earned guinea, or an article
of dress, was exchanged for a book without remorse; he neither heard his children cry, nor
observed his companion's emaciated form, and the excess of calamity was merely to him as the
occurrence of a cloudy night, when he would have given his right hand to observe a celestial
phenomenon. His wife was one of those wondrous beings, to be found only among women, with affections
not to be diminished by misfortune. Her mind was divided between boundless admiration for her
husband, and tender anxiety for her children--she waited on him, worked for them, and never
complained, though care rendered her life one long-drawn, melancholy dream.

He had introduced himself to Adrian, by a request he made to observe some planetary motions
from his glass. His poverty was easily detected and relieved. He often thanked us for the books
we lent him, and for the use of our instruments, but never spoke of his altered abode or change
of circumstances. His wife assured us, that he had not observed any difference, except in the
absence of the children from his study, and to her infinite surprise he complained of this
unaccustomed quiet.

He came now to announce to us the completion of his Essay on the Pericyclical Motions of the
Earth's Axis, and the precession of the equinoctial points. If an old Roman of the period of
the Republic had returned to life, and talked of the impending election of some laurel-crowned
consul, or of the last battle with Mithridates, his ideas would not have been more alien to
the times, than the conversation of Merrival. Man, no longer with an appetite for sympathy,
clothed his thoughts in visible signs; nor were there any readers left: while each one, having
thrown away his sword with opposing shield alone, awaited the plague, Merrival talked of the
state of mankind six thousand years hence. He might with equal interest to us, have added a
commentary, to describe the unknown and unimaginable lineaments of the creatures, who would
then occupy the vacated dwelling of mankind. We had not the heart to undeceive the poor old
man; and at the moment I came in, he was reading parts of his book to Idris, asking what answer
could be given to this or that position.

Idris could not refrain from a smile, as she listened; she had already gathered from him that
his family was alive and in health; though not apt to forget the precipice of time on which
she stood, yet I could perceive that she was amused for a moment, by the contrast between the
contracted view we had so long taken of human life, and the seven league strides with which
Merrival paced a coming eternity. I was glad to see her smile, because it assured me of her
total ignorance of her infant's danger: but I shuddered to think of the revulsion that would
be occasioned by a discovery of the truth. While Merrival was talking, Clara softly opened
a door behind Idris, and beckoned me to come with a gesture and look of grief. A mirror betrayed
the sign to Idris--she started up. To suspect evil, to perceive that, Alfred being with us,
the danger must regard her youngest darling, to fly across the long chambers into his apartment,
was the work but of a moment. There she beheld her Evelyn lying fever-stricken and motionless.
I followed her, and strove to inspire more hope than I could myself entertain; but she shook
her head mournfully. Anguish deprived her of presence of mind; she gave up to me and Clara
the physician's and nurse's parts; she sat by the bed, holding one little burning hand, and,
with glazed eyes fixed on her babe, passed the long day in one unvaried agony. It was not the
plague that visited our little boy so roughly; but she could not listen to my assurances; apprehension
deprived her of judgment and reflection; every slight convulsion of her child's features shook
her frame --if he moved, she dreaded the instant crisis; if he remained still, she saw death
in his torpor, and the cloud on her brow darkened.

The poor little thing's fever encreased towards night. Clara, overcome by weariness, had seated
herself at the foot of her cousin's bed, and in spite of her efforts slumber weighed down her
lids; twice or thrice she shook it off; but at length she was conquered and slept. Idris sat
at the bedside, holding Evelyn's hand; we were afraid to speak to each other; I watched the
stars --I hung over my child--I felt his little pulse--I drew near the mother--again I receded.
At the turn of morning a gentle sigh from the patient attracted me, the burning spot on his
cheek faded--his pulse beat softly and regularly--torpor yielded to sleep. For a long time
I dared not hope; but when his unobstructed breathing and the moisture that suffused his forehead,
were tokens no longer to be mistaken of the departure of mortal malady, I ventured to whisper
the news of the change to Idris, and at length succeeded in persuading her that I spoke truth.

But neither this assurance, nor the speedy convalescence of our child could restore her, even
to the portion of peace she before enjoyed. Her fear had been too deep, too absorbing, too
entire, to be changed to security. She felt as if during her past calm she had dreamed, but
was now awake; she was

  As one
  In some lone watch-tower on the deep, awakened
  From soothing visions of the home he loves,
  Trembling to hear the wrathful billows roar;[6]

as one who has been cradled by a storm, and awakes to find the vessel sinking. Before, she
had been visited by pangs of fear--now, she never enjoyed an interval of hope. No smile of
the heart ever irradiated her fair countenance; sometimes she forced one, and then gushing
tears would flow, and the sea of grief close above these wrecks of past happiness. Still while
I was near her, she could not be in utter despair-- she fully confided herself to me--she did
not seem to fear my death, or revert to its possibility; to my guardianship she consigned the
full freight of her anxieties, reposing on my love, as a wind-nipped fawn by the side of a
doe, as a wounded nestling under its mother's wing, as a tiny, shattered boat, quivering still,
beneath some protecting willow-tree. While I, not proudly as in days of joy, yet tenderly,
and with glad consciousness of the comfort I afforded, drew my trembling girl close to my heart,
and tried to ward every painful thought or rough circumstance from her sensitive nature.

One other incident occurred at the end of this summer. The Countess of Windsor, Ex-Queen of
England, returned from Germany. She had at the beginning of the season quitted the vacant city
of Vienna; and, unable to tame her haughty mind to anything like submission, she had delayed
at Hamburgh, and, when at last she came to London, many weeks elapsed before she gave Adrian
notice of her arrival. In spite of her coldness and long absence, he welcomed her with sensibility,
displaying such affection as sought to heal the wounds of pride and sorrow, and was repulsed
only by her total apparent want of sympathy. Idris heard of her mother's return with pleasure.
Her own maternal feelings were so ardent, that she imagined her parent must now, in this waste
world, have lost pride and harshness, and would receive with delight her filial attentions.
The first check to her duteous demonstrations was a formal intimation from the fallen majesty
of England, that I was in no manner to be intruded upon her. She consented, she said, to forgive
her daughter, and acknowledge her grandchildren; larger concessions must not be expected.

To me this proceeding appeared (if so light a term may be permitted) extremely whimsical. Now
that the race of man had lost in fact all distinction of rank, this pride was doubly fatuitous;
now that we felt a kindred, fraternal nature with all who bore the stamp of humanity, this
angry reminiscence of times for ever gone, was worse than foolish. Idris was too much taken
up by her own dreadful fears, to be angry, hardly grieved; for she judged that insensibility
must be the source of this continued rancour. This was not altogether the fact: but predominant
self-will assumed the arms and masque of callous feeling; and the haughty lady disdained to
exhibit any token of the struggle she endured; while the slave of pride, she fancied that she
sacrificed her happiness to immutable principle.

False was all this--false all but the affections of our nature, and the links of sympathy with
pleasure or pain. There was but one good and one evil in the world--life and death. The pomp
of rank, the assumption of power, the possessions of wealth vanished like morning mist. One
living beggar had become of more worth than a national peerage of dead lords-- alas the day!--than
of dead heroes, patriots, or men of genius. There was much of degradation in this: for even
vice and virtue had lost their attributes--life--life--the continuation of our animal mechanism--
was the Alpha and Omega of the desires, the prayers, the prostrate ambition of human race.

[1] Calderon de la Barca. [2] Wordsworth. [3] Keats. [4] Andrew Marvell. [5] The Cenci [6]
The Brides' Tragedy, by T. L. Beddoes, Esq.

CHAPTER IX.

HALF England was desolate, when October came, and the equinoctial winds swept over the earth,
chilling the ardours of the unhealthy season. The summer, which was uncommonly hot, had been
protracted into the beginning of this month, when on the eighteenth a sudden change was brought
about from summer temperature to winter frost. Pestilence then made a pause in her death-dealing
career. Gasping, not daring to name our hopes, yet full even to the brim with intense expectation,
we stood, as a ship-wrecked sailor stands on a barren rock islanded by the ocean, watching
a distant vessel, fancying that now it nears, and then again that it is bearing from sight.
This promise of a renewed lease of life turned rugged natures to melting tenderness, and by
contrast filled the soft with harsh and unnatural sentiments. When it seemed destined that
all were to die, we were reckless of the how and when--now that the virulence of the disease
was mitigated, and it appeared willing to spare some, each was eager to be among the elect,
and clung to life with dastard tenacity. Instances of desertion became more frequent; and even
murders, which made the hearer sick with horror, where the fear of contagion had armed those
nearest in blood against each other. But these smaller and separate tragedies were about to
yield to a mightier interest--and, while we were promised calm from infectious influences,
a tempest arose wilder than the winds, a tempest bred by the passions of man, nourished by
his most violent impulses, unexampled and dire.

A number of people from North America, the relics of that populous continent, had set sail
for the East with mad desire of change, leaving their native plains for lands not less afflicted
than their own. Several hundreds landed in Ireland, about the first of November, and took possession
of such vacant habitations as they could find; seizing upon the superabundant food, and the
stray cattle. As they exhausted the produce of one spot, they went on to another. At length
they began to interfere with the inhabitants, and strong in their concentrated numbers, ejected
the natives from their dwellings, and robbed them of their winter store. A few events of this
kind roused the fiery nature of the Irish; and they attacked the invaders. Some were destroyed;
the major part escaped by quick and well ordered movements; and danger made them careful. Their
numbers ably arranged; the very deaths among them concealed; moving on in good order, and apparently
given up to enjoyment, they excited the envy of the Irish. The Americans permitted a few to
join their band, and presently the recruits outnumbered the strangers--nor did they join with
them, nor imitate the admirable order which, preserved by the Trans-Atlantic chiefs, rendered
them at once secure and formidable. The Irish followed their track in disorganized multitudes;
each day encreasing; each day becoming more lawless. The Americans were eager to escape from
the spirit they had roused, and, reaching the eastern shores of the island, embarked for England.
Their incursion would hardly have been felt had they come alone; but the Irish, collected in
unnatural numbers, began to feel the inroads of famine, and they followed in the wake of the
Americans for England also. The crossing of the sea could not arrest their progress. The harbours
of the desolate sea-ports of the west of Ireland were filled with vessels of all sizes, from
the man of war to the small fishers' boat, which lay sailorless, and rotting on the lazy deep.
The emigrants embarked by hundreds, and unfurling their sails with rude hands, made strange
havoc of buoy and cordage. Those who modestly betook themselves to the smaller craft, for the
most part achieved their watery journey in safety. Some, in the true spirit of reckless enterprise,
went on board a ship of an hundred and twenty guns; the vast hull drifted with the tide out
of the bay, and after many hours its crew of landsmen contrived to spread a great part of her
enormous canvass--the wind took it, and while a thousand mistakes of the helmsman made her
present her head now to one point, and now to another, the vast fields of canvass that formed
her sails flapped with a sound like that of a huge cataract; or such as a sea-like forest may
give forth when buffeted by an equinoctial north-wind. The port-holes were open, and with every
sea, which as she lurched, washed her decks, they received whole tons of water. The difficulties
were increased by a fresh breeze which began to blow, whistling among the shrowds, dashing
the sails this way and that, and rending them with horrid split, and such whir as may have
visited the dreams of Milton, when he imagined the winnowing of the arch-fiend's van-like wings,
which encreased the uproar of wild chaos. These sounds were mingled with the roaring of the
sea, the splash of the chafed billows round the vessel's sides, and the gurgling up of the
water in the hold. The crew, many of whom had never seen the sea before, felt indeed as if
heaven and earth came ruining together, as the vessel dipped her bows in the waves, or rose
high upon them. Their yells were drowned in the clamour of elements, and the thunder rivings
of their unwieldy habitation--they discovered at last that the water gained on them, and they
betook themselves to their pumps; they might as well have laboured to empty the ocean by bucketfuls.
As the sun went down, the gale encreased; the ship seemed to feel her danger, she was now completely
water-logged, and presented other indications of settling before she went down. The bay was
crowded with vessels, whose crews, for the most part, were observing the uncouth sportings
of this huge unwieldy machine--they saw her gradually sink; the waters now rising above her
lower decks--they could hardly wink before she had utterly disappeared, nor could the place
where the sea had closed over her be at all discerned. Some few of her crew were saved, but
the greater part clinging to her cordage and masts went down with her, to rise only when death
loosened their hold.

This event caused many of those who were about to sail, to put foot again on firm land, ready
to encounter any evil rather than to rush into the yawning jaws of the pitiless ocean. But
these were few, in comparison to the numbers who actually crossed. Many went up as high as
Belfast to ensure a shorter passage, and then journeying south through Scotland, they were
joined by the poorer natives of that country, and all poured with one consent into England.

Such incursions struck the English with affright, in all those towns where there was still
sufficient population to feel the change. There was room enough indeed in our hapless country
for twice the number of invaders; but their lawless spirit instigated them to violence; they
took a delight in thrusting the possessors from their houses; in seizing on some mansion of
luxury, where the noble dwellers secluded themselves in fear of the plague; in forcing these
of either sex to become their servants and purveyors; till, the ruin complete in one place,
they removed their locust visitation to another. When unopposed they spread their ravages wide;
in cases of danger they clustered, and by dint of numbers overthrew their weak and despairing
foes. They came from the east and the north, and directed their course without apparent motive,
but unanimously towards our unhappy metropolis.

Communication had been to a great degree cut off through the paralyzing effects of pestilence,
so that the van of our invaders had proceeded as far as Manchester and Derby, before we received
notice of their arrival. They swept the country like a conquering army, burning--laying waste--
murdering. The lower and vagabond English joined with them. Some few of the Lords Lieutenant
who remained, endeavoured to collect the militia--but the ranks were vacant, panic seized on
all, and the opposition that was made only served to increase the audacity and cruelty of the
enemy. They talked of taking London, conquering England--calling to mind the long detail of
injuries which had for many years been forgotten. Such vaunts displayed their weakness, rather
than their strength--yet still they might do extreme mischief, which, ending in their destruction,
would render them at last objects of compassion and remorse.

We were now taught how, in the beginning of the world, mankind clothed their enemies in impossible
attributes--and how details proceeding from mouth to mouth, might, like Virgil's ever-growing
Rumour, reach the heavens with her brow, and clasp Hesperus and Lucifer with her outstretched
hands. Gorgon and Centaur, dragon and iron-hoofed lion, vast sea-monster and gigantic hydra,
were but types of the strange and appalling accounts brought to London concerning our invaders.
Their landing was long unknown, but having now advanced within an hundred miles of London,
the country people flying before them arrived in successive troops, each exaggerating the numbers,
fury, and cruelty of the assailants. Tumult filled the before quiet streets--women and children
deserted their homes, escaping they knew not whither--fathers, husbands, and sons, stood trembling,
not for themselves, but for their loved and defenceless relations. As the country people poured
into London, the citizens fled southwards--they climbed the higher edifices of the town, fancying
that they could discern the smoke and flames the enemy spread around them. As Windsor lay,
to a great degree, in the line of march from the west, I removed my family to London, assigning
the Tower for their sojourn, and joining Adrian, acted as his Lieutenant in the coming struggle.

We employed only two days in our preparations, and made good use of them. Artillery and arms
were collected; the remnants of such regiments, as could be brought through many losses into
any show of muster, were put under arms, with that appearance of military discipline which
might encourage our own party, and seem most formidable to the disorganized multitude of our
enemies. Even music was not wanting: banners floated in the air, and the shrill fife and loud
trumpet breathed forth sounds of encouragement and victory. A practised ear might trace an
undue faltering in the step of the soldiers; but this was not occasioned so much by fear of
the adversary, as by disease, by sorrow, and by fatal prognostications, which often weighed
most potently on the brave, and quelled the manly heart to abject subjection.

Adrian led the troops. He was full of care. It was small relief to him that our discipline
should gain us success in such a conflict; while plague still hovered to equalize the conqueror
and the conquered, it was not victory that he desired, but bloodless peace. As we advanced,
we were met by bands of peasantry, whose almost naked condition, whose despair and horror,
told at once the fierce nature of the coming enemy. The senseless spirit of conquest and thirst
of spoil blinded them, while with insane fury they deluged the country in ruin. The sight of
the military restored hope to those who fled, and revenge took place of fear. They inspired
the soldiers with the same sentiment. Languor was changed to ardour, the slow step converted
to a speedy pace, while the hollow murmur of the multitude, inspired by one feeling, and that
deadly, filled the air, drowning the clang of arms and sound of music. Adrian perceived the
change, and feared that it would be difficult to prevent them from wreaking their utmost fury
on the Irish. He rode through the lines, charging the officers to restrain the troops, exhorting
the soldiers, restoring order, and quieting in some degree the violent agitation that swelled
every bosom.

We first came upon a few stragglers of the Irish at St. Albans. They retreated, and, joining
others of their companions, still fell back, till they reached the main body. Tidings of an
armed and regular opposition recalled them to a sort of order. They made Buckingham their head-quarters,
and scouts were sent out to ascertain our situation. We remained for the night at Luton. In
the morning a simultaneous movement caused us each to advance. It was early dawn, and the air,
impregnated with freshest odour, seemed in idle mockery to play with our banners, and bore
onwards towards the enemy the music of the bands, the neighings of the horses, and regular
step of the infantry. The first sound of martial instruments that came upon our undisciplined
foe, inspired surprise, not unmingled with dread. It spoke of other days, of days of concord
and order; it was associated with times when plague was not, and man lived beyond the shadow
of imminent fate. The pause was momentary. Soon we heard their disorderly clamour, the barbarian
shouts, the untimed step of thousands coming on in disarray. Their troops now came pouring
on us from the open country or narrow lanes; a large extent of unenclosed fields lay between
us; we advanced to the middle of this, and then made a halt: being somewhat on superior ground,
we could discern the space they covered. When their leaders perceived us drawn out in opposition,
they also gave the word to halt, and endeavoured to form their men into some imitation of military
discipline. The first ranks had muskets; some were mounted, but their arms were such as they
had seized during their advance, their horses those they had taken from the peasantry; there
was no uniformity, and little obedience, but their shouts and wild gestures showed the untamed
spirit that inspired them. Our soldiers received the word, and advanced to quickest time, but
in perfect order: their uniform dresses, the gleam of their polished arms, their silence, and
looks of sullen hate, were more appalling than the savage clamour of our innumerous foe. Thus
coming nearer and nearer each other, the howls and shouts of the Irish increased; the English
proceeded in obedience to their officers, until they came near enough to distinguish the faces
of their enemies; the sight inspired them with fury: with one cry, that rent heaven and was
re-echoed by the furthest lines, they rushed on; they disdained the use of the bullet, but
with fixed bayonet dashed among the opposing foe, while the ranks opening at intervals, the
matchmen lighted the cannon, whose deafening roar and blinding smoke filled up the horror of
the scene. I was beside Adrian; a moment before he had again given the word to halt, and had
remained a few yards distant from us in deep meditation: he was forming swiftly his plan of
action, to prevent the effusion of blood; the noise of cannon, the sudden rush of the troops,
and yell of the foe, startled him: with flashing eyes he exclaimed, "Not one of these must
perish!" and plunging the rowels into his horse's sides, he dashed between the conflicting
bands. We, his staff, followed him to surround and protect him; obeying his signal, however,
we fell back somewhat. The soldiery perceiving him, paused in their onset; he did not swerve
from the bullets that passed near him, but rode immediately between the opposing lines. Silence
succeeded to clamour; about fifty men lay on the ground dying or dead. Adrian raised his sword
in act to speak: "By whose command," he cried, addressing his own troops, "do you advance?
Who ordered your attack? Fall back; these misguided men shall not be slaughtered, while I am
your general. Sheath your weapons; these are your brothers, commit not fratricide; soon the
plague will not leave one for you to glut your revenge upon: will you be more pitiless than
pestilence? As you honour me--as you worship God, in whose image those also are created--as
your children and friends are dear to you,--shed not a drop of precious human blood."

He spoke with outstretched hand and winning voice, and then turning to our invaders, with a
severe brow, he commanded them to lay down their arms: "Do you think," he said, "that because
we are wasted by plague, you can overcome us; the plague is also among you, and when ye are
vanquished by famine and disease, the ghosts of those you have murdered will arise to bid you
not hope in death. Lay down your arms, barbarous and cruel men--men whose hands are stained
with the blood of the innocent, whose souls are weighed down by the orphan's cry! We shall
conquer, for the right is on our side; already your cheeks are pale--the weapons fall from
your nerveless grasp. Lay down your arms, fellow men! brethren! Pardon, succour, and brotherly
love await your repentance. You are dear to us, because you wear the frail shape of humanity;
each one among you will find a friend and host among these forces. Shall man be the enemy of
man, while plague, the foe to all, even now is above us, triumphing in our butchery, more cruel
than her own?"

Each army paused. On our side the soldiers grasped their arms firmly, and looked with stern
glances on the foe. These had not thrown down their weapons, more from fear than the spirit
of contest; they looked at each other, each wishing to follow some example given him,--but
they had no leader. Adrian threw himself from his horse, and approaching one of those just
slain: "He was a man," he cried, "and he is dead. O quickly bind up the wounds of the fallen--let
not one die; let not one more soul escape through your merciless gashes, to relate before the
throne of God the tale of fratricide; bind up their wounds--restore them to their friends.
Cast away the hearts of tigers that burn in your breasts; throw down those tools of cruelty
and hate; in this pause of exterminating destiny, let each man be brother, guardian, and stay
to the other. Away with those blood-stained arms, and hasten some of you to bind up these wounds."

As he spoke, he knelt on the ground, and raised in his arms a man from whose side the warm
tide of life gushed--the poor wretch gasped--so still had either host become, that his moans
were distinctly heard, and every heart, late fiercely bent on universal massacre, now beat
anxiously in hope and fear for the fate of this one man. Adrian tore off his military scarf
and bound it round the sufferer--it was too late--the man heaved a deep sigh, his head fell
back, his limbs lost their sustaining power.-- "He is dead!" said Adrian, as the corpse fell
from his arms on the ground, and he bowed his head in sorrow and awe. The fate of the world
seemed bound up in the death of this single man. On either side the bands threw down their
arms, even the veterans wept, and our party held out their hands to their foes, while a gush
of love and deepest amity filled every heart. The two forces mingling, unarmed and hand in
hand, talking only how each might assist the other, the adversaries conjoined; each repenting,
the one side their former cruelties, the other their late violence, they obeyed the orders
of the General to proceed towards London.

Adrian was obliged to exert his utmost prudence, first to allay the discord, and then to provide
for the multitude of the invaders. They were marched to various parts of the southern counties,
quartered in deserted villages,--a part were sent back to their own island, while the season
of winter so far revived our energy, that the passes of the country were defended, and any
increase of numbers prohibited.

On this occasion Adrian and Idris met after a separation of nearly a year. Adrian had been
occupied in fulfilling a laborious and painful task. He had been familiar with every species
of human misery, and had for ever found his powers inadequate, his aid of small avail. Yet
the purpose of his soul, his energy and ardent resolution, prevented any re-action of sorrow.
He seemed born anew, and virtue, more potent than Medean alchemy, endued him with health and
strength. Idris hardly recognized the fragile being, whose form had seemed to bend even to
the summer breeze, in the energetic man, whose very excess of sensibility rendered him more
capable of fulfilling his station of pilot in storm-tossed England.

It was not thus with Idris. She was uncomplaining; but the very soul of fear had taken its
seat in her heart. She had grown thin and pale, her eyes filled with involuntary tears, her
voice was broken and low. She tried to throw a veil over the change which she knew her brother
must observe in her, but the effort was ineffectual; and when alone with him, with a burst
of irrepressible grief she gave vent to her apprehensions and sorrow. She described in vivid
terms the ceaseless care that with still renewing hunger ate into her soul; she compared this
gnawing of sleepless expectation of evil, to the vulture that fed on the heart of Prometheus;
under the influence of this eternal excitement, and of the interminable struggles she endured
to combat and conceal it, she felt, she said, as if all the wheels and springs of the animal
machine worked at double rate, and were fast consuming themselves. Sleep was not sleep, for
her waking thoughts, bridled by some remains of reason, and by the sight of her children happy
and in health, were then transformed to wild dreams, all her terrors were realized, all her
fears received their dread fulfilment. To this state there was no hope, no alleviation, unless
the grave should quickly receive its destined prey, and she be permitted to die, before she
experienced a thousand living deaths in the loss of those she loved. Fearing to give me pain,
she hid as best she could the excess of her wretchedness, but meeting thus her brother after
a long absence, she could not restrain the expression of her woe, but with all the vividness
of imagination with which misery is always replete, she poured out the emotions of her heart
to her beloved and sympathizing Adrian.

Her present visit to London tended to augment her state of inquietude, by shewing in its utmost
extent the ravages occasioned by pestilence. It hardly preserved the appearance of an inhabited
city; grass sprung up thick in the streets; the squares were weed-grown, the houses were shut
up, while silence and loneliness characterized the busiest parts of the town. Yet in the midst
of desolation Adrian had preserved order; and each one continued to live according to law and
custom--human institutions thus surviving as it were divine ones, and while the decree of population
was abrogated, property continued sacred. It was a melancholy reflection; and in spite of the
diminution of evil produced, it struck on the heart as a wretched mockery. All idea of resort
for pleasure, of theatres and festivals had passed away. "Next summer," said Adrian as we parted
on our return to Windsor, "will decide the fate of the human race. I shall not pause in my
exertions until that time; but, if plague revives with the coming year, all contest with her
must cease, and our only occupation be the choice of a grave."

I must not forget one incident that occurred during this visit to London. The visits of Merrival
to Windsor, before frequent, had suddenly ceased. At this time where but a hair's line separated
the living from the dead, I feared that our friend had become a victim to the all-embracing
evil. On this occasion I went, dreading the worst, to his dwelling, to see if I could be of
any service to those of his family who might have survived. The house was deserted, and had
been one of those assigned to the invading strangers quartered in London. I saw his astronomical
instruments put to strange uses, his globes defaced, his papers covered with abstruse calculations
destroyed. The neighbours could tell me little, till I lighted on a poor woman who acted as
nurse in these perilous times. She told me that all the family were dead, except Merrival himself,
who had gone mad-- mad, she called it, yet on questioning her further, it appeared that he
was possessed only by the delirium of excessive grief. This old man, tottering on the edge
of the grave, and prolonging his prospect through millions of calculated years,--this visionary
who had not seen starvation in the wasted forms of his wife and children, or plague in the
horrible sights and sounds that surrounded him--this astronomer, apparently dead on earth,
and living only in the motion of the spheres--loved his family with unapparent but intense
affection. Through long habit they had become a part of himself; his want of worldly knowledge,
his absence of mind and infant guilelessness, made him utterly dependent on them. It was not
till one of them died that he perceived their danger; one by one they were carried off by pestilence;
and his wife, his helpmate and supporter, more necessary to him than his own limbs and frame,
which had hardly been taught the lesson of self-preservation, the kind companion whose voice
always spoke peace to him, closed her eyes in death. The old man felt the system of universal
nature which he had so long studied and adored, slide from under him, and he stood among the
dead, and lifted his voice in curses.--No wonder that the attendant should interpret as phrensy
the harrowing maledictions of the grief-struck old man.

I had commenced my search late in the day, a November day, that closed in early with pattering
rain and melancholy wind. As I turned from the door, I saw Merrival, or rather the shadow of
Merrival, attenuated and wild, pass me, and sit on the steps of his home. The breeze scattered
the grey locks on his temples, the rain drenched his uncovered head, he sat hiding his face
in his withered hands. I pressed his shoulder to awaken his attention, but he did not alter
his position. "Merrival," I said, "it is long since we have seen you--you must return to Windsor
with me--Lady Idris desires to see you, you will not refuse her request--come home with me."

He replied in a hollow voice, "Why deceive a helpless old man, why talk hypocritically to one
half crazed? Windsor is not my home; my true home I have found; the home that the Creator has
prepared for me."

His accent of bitter scorn thrilled me--"Do not tempt me to speak," he continued, "my words
would scare you--in an universe of cowards I dare think--among the church-yard tombs--among
the victims of His merciless tyranny I dare reproach the Supreme Evil. How can he punish me?
Let him bare his arm and transfix me with lightning--this is also one of his attributes"--and
the old man laughed.

He rose, and I followed him through the rain to a neighbouring church-yard --he threw himself
on the wet earth. "Here they are," he cried, "beautiful creatures--breathing, speaking, loving
creatures. She who by day and night cherished the age-worn lover of her youth--they, parts
of my flesh, my children--here they are: call them, scream their names through the night; they
will not answer!" He clung to the little heaps that marked the graves. "I ask but one thing;
I do not fear His hell, for I have it here; I do not desire His heaven, let me but die and
be laid beside them; let me but, when I lie dead, feel my flesh as it moulders, mingle with
theirs. Promise," and he raised himself painfully, and seized my arm, "promise to bury me with
them."

"So God help me and mine as I promise," I replied, "on one condition: return with me to Windsor."

"To Windsor!" he cried with a shriek, "Never!--from this place I never go --my bones, my flesh,
I myself, are already buried here, and what you see of me is corrupted clay like them. I will
lie here, and cling here, till rain, and hail, and lightning and storm, ruining on me, make
me one in substance with them below."

In a few words I must conclude this tragedy. I was obliged to leave London, and Adrian undertook
to watch over him; the task was soon fulfilled; age, grief, and inclement weather, all united
to hush his sorrows, and bring repose to his heart, whose beats were agony. He died embracing
the sod, which was piled above his breast, when he was placed beside the beings whom he regretted
with such wild despair.

I returned to Windsor at the wish of Idris, who seemed to think that there was greater safety
for her children at that spot; and because, once having taken on me the guardianship of the
district, I would not desert it while an inhabitant survived. I went also to act in conformity
with Adrian's plans, which was to congregate in masses what remained of the population; for
he possessed the conviction that it was only through the benevolent and social virtues that
any safety was to be hoped for the remnant of mankind.

It was a melancholy thing to return to this spot so dear to us, as the scene of a happiness
rarely before enjoyed, here to mark the extinction of our species, and trace the deep uneraseable
footsteps of disease over the fertile and cherished soil. The aspect of the country had so
far changed, that it had been impossible to enter on the task of sowing seed, and other autumnal
labours. That season was now gone; and winter had set in with sudden and unusual severity.
Alternate frosts and thaws succeeding to floods, rendered the country impassable. Heavy falls
of snow gave an arctic appearance to the scenery; the roofs of the houses peeped from the white
mass; the lowly cot and stately mansion, alike deserted, were blocked up, their thresholds
uncleared; the windows were broken by the hail, while the prevalence of a north-east wind rendered
out-door exertions extremely painful. The altered state of society made these accidents of
nature, sources of real misery. The luxury of command and the attentions of servitude were
lost. It is true that the necessaries of life were assembled in such quantities, as to supply
to superfluity the wants of the diminished population; but still much labour was required to
arrange these, as it were, raw materials; and depressed by sickness, and fearful of the future,
we had not energy to enter boldly and decidedly on any system.

I can speak for myself--want of energy was not my failing. The intense life that quickened
my pulses, and animated my frame, had the effect, not of drawing me into the mazes of active
life, but of exalting my lowliness, and of bestowing majestic proportions on insignificant
objects--I could have lived the life of a peasant in the same way--my trifling occupations
were swelled into important pursuits; my affections were impetuous and engrossing passions,
and nature with all her changes was invested in divine attributes. The very spirit of the Greek
mythology inhabited my heart; I deified the uplands, glades, and streams, I

  Had sight of Proteus coming from the sea;
  And heard old Triton blow his wreathed horn.[1]

Strange, that while the earth preserved her monotonous course, I dwelt with ever-renewing wonder
on her antique laws, and now that with excentric wheel she rushed into an untried path, I should
feel this spirit fade; I struggled with despondency and weariness, but like a fog, they choked
me. Perhaps, after the labours and stupendous excitement of the past summer, the calm of winter
and the almost menial toils it brought with it, were by natural re-action doubly irksome. It
was not the grasping passion of the preceding year, which gave life and individuality to each
moment--it was not the aching pangs induced by the distresses of the times. The utter inutility
that had attended all my exertions took from them their usual effects of exhilaration, and
despair rendered abortive the balm of self applause--I longed to return to my old occupations,
but of what use were they? To read were futile--to write, vanity indeed. The earth, late wide
circus for the display of dignified exploits, vast theatre for a magnificent drama, now presented
a vacant space, an empty stage--for actor or spectator there was no longer aught to say or hear.

Our little town of Windsor, in which the survivors from the neighbouring counties were chiefly
assembled, wore a melancholy aspect. Its streets were blocked up with snow--the few passengers
seemed palsied, and frozen by the ungenial visitation of winter. To escape these evils was
the aim and scope of all our exertions. Families late devoted to exalting and refined pursuits,
rich, blooming, and young, with diminished numbers and care-fraught hearts, huddled over a
fire, grown selfish and grovelling through suffering. Without the aid of servants, it was necessary
to discharge all household duties; hands unused to such labour must knead the bread, or in
the absence of flour, the statesmen or perfumed courtier must undertake the butcher's office.
Poor and rich were now equal, or rather the poor were the superior, since they entered on such
tasks with alacrity and experience; while ignorance, inaptitude, and habits of repose, rendered
them fatiguing to the luxurious, galling to the proud, disgustful to all whose minds, bent
on intellectual improvement, held it their dearest privilege to be exempt from attending to
mere animal wants.

But in every change goodness and affection can find field for exertion and display. Among some
these changes produced a devotion and sacrifice of self at once graceful and heroic. It was
a sight for the lovers of the human race to enjoy; to behold, as in ancient times, the patriarchal
modes in which the variety of kindred and friendship fulfilled their duteous and kindly offices.
Youths, nobles of the land, performed for the sake of mother or sister, the services of menials
with amiable cheerfulness. They went to the river to break the ice, and draw water: they assembled
on foraging expeditions, or axe in hand felled the trees for fuel. The females received them
on their return with the simple and affectionate welcome known before only to the lowly cottage--a
clean hearth and bright fire; the supper ready cooked by beloved hands; gratitude for the provision
for to-morrow's meal: strange enjoyments for the high-born English, yet they were now their
sole, hard earned, and dearly prized luxuries.

None was more conspicuous for this graceful submission to circumstances, noble humility, and
ingenious fancy to adorn such acts with romantic colouring, than our own Clara. She saw my
despondency, and the aching cares of Idris. Her perpetual study was to relieve us from labour
and to spread ease and even elegance over our altered mode of life. We still had some attendants
spared by disease, and warmly attached to us. But Clara was jealous of their services; she
would be sole handmaid of Idris, sole minister to the wants of her little cousins; nothing
gave her so much pleasure as our employing her in this way; she went beyond our desires, earnest,
diligent, and unwearied,--

  Abra was ready ere we called her name,
  And though we called another, Abra came.[2]

It was my task each day to visit the various families assembled in our town, and when the weather
permitted, I was glad to prolong my ride, and to muse in solitude over every changeful appearance
of our destiny, endeavouring to gather lessons for the future from the experience of the past.
The impatience with which, while in society, the ills that afflicted my species inspired me,
were softened by loneliness, when individual suffering was merged in the general calamity,
strange to say, less afflicting to contemplate. Thus often, pushing my way with difficulty
through the narrow snow-blocked town, I crossed the bridge and passed through Eton. No youthful
congregation of gallant-hearted boys thronged the portal of the college; sad silence pervaded
the busy school-room and noisy playground. I extended my ride towards Salt Hill, on every side
impeded by the snow. Were those the fertile fields I loved--was that the interchange of gentle
upland and cultivated dale, once covered with waving corn, diversified by stately trees, watered
by the meandering Thames? One sheet of white covered it, while bitter recollection told me
that cold as the winter-clothed earth, were the hearts of the inhabitants. I met troops of
horses, herds of cattle, flocks of sheep, wandering at will; here throwing down a hay-rick,
and nestling from cold in its heart, which afforded them shelter and food--there having taken
possession of a vacant cottage. Once on a frosty day, pushed on by restless unsatisfying reflections,
I sought a favourite haunt, a little wood not far distant from Salt Hill. A bubbling spring
prattles over stones on one side, and a plantation of a few elms and beeches, hardly deserve,
and yet continue the name of wood. This spot had for me peculiar charms. It had been a favourite
resort of Adrian; it was secluded; and he often said that in boyhood, his happiest hours were
spent here; having escaped the stately bondage of his mother, he sat on the rough hewn steps
that led to the spring, now reading a favourite book, now musing, with speculation beyond his
years, on the still unravelled skein of morals or metaphysics. A melancholy foreboding assured
me that I should never see this place more; so with careful thought, I noted each tree, every
winding of the streamlet and irregularity of the soil, that I might better call up its idea
in absence. A robin red-breast dropt from the frosty branches of the trees, upon the congealed
rivulet; its panting breast and half-closed eyes shewed that it was dying: a hawk appeared
in the air; sudden fear seized the little creature; it exerted its last strength, throwing
itself on its back, raising its talons in impotent defence against its powerful enemy. I took
it up and placed it in my breast. I fed it with a few crumbs from a biscuit; by degrees it
revived; its warm fluttering heart beat against me; I cannot tell why I detail this trifling
incident--but the scene is still before me; the snow-clad fields seen through the silvered
trunks of the beeches,--the brook, in days of happiness alive with sparkling waters, now choked
by ice--the leafless trees fantastically dressed in hoar frost--the shapes of summer leaves
imaged by winter's frozen hand on the hard ground--the dusky sky, drear cold, and unbroken
silence--while close in my bosom, my feathered nursling lay warm, and safe, speaking its content
with a light chirp-- painful reflections thronged, stirring my brain with wild commotion--cold
and death-like as the snowy fields was all earth--misery-stricken the life-tide of the inhabitants--why
should I oppose the cataract of destruction that swept us away?--why string my nerves and renew
my wearied efforts--ah, why? But that my firm courage and cheerful exertions might shelter
the dear mate, whom I chose in the spring of my life; though the throbbings of my heart be
replete with pain, though my hopes for the future are chill, still while your dear head, my
gentlest love, can repose in peace on that heart, and while you derive from its fostering care,
comfort, and hope, my struggles shall not cease,--I will not call myself altogether vanquished.

One fine February day, when the sun had reassumed some of its genial power, I walked in the
forest with my family. It was one of those lovely winter-days which assert the capacity of
nature to bestow beauty on barrenness. The leafless trees spread their fibrous branches against
the pure sky; their intricate and pervious tracery resembled delicate sea-weed; the deer were
turning up the snow in search of the hidden grass; the white was made intensely dazzling by
the sun, and trunks of the trees, rendered more conspicuous by the loss of preponderating foliage,
gathered around like the labyrinthine columns of a vast temple; it was impossible not to receive
pleasure from the sight of these things. Our children, freed from the bondage of winter, bounded
before us; pursuing the deer, or rousing the pheasants and partridges from their coverts. Idris
leant on my arm; her sadness yielded to the present sense of pleasure. We met other families
on the Long Walk, enjoying like ourselves the return of the genial season. At once, I seemed
to awake; I cast off the clinging sloth of the past months; earth assumed a new appearance,
and my view of the future was suddenly made clear. I exclaimed, "I have now found out the secret!"

"What secret?"

In answer to this question, I described our gloomy winter-life, our sordid cares, our menial
labours:--"This northern country," I said, "is no place for our diminished race. When mankind
were few, it was not here that they battled with the powerful agents of nature, and were enabled
to cover the globe with offspring. We must seek some natural Paradise, some garden of the earth,
where our simple wants may be easily supplied, and the enjoyment of a delicious climate compensate
for the social pleasures we have lost. If we survive this coming summer, I will not spend the
ensuing winter in England; neither I nor any of us."

I spoke without much heed, and the very conclusion of what I said brought with it other thoughts.
Should we, any of us, survive the coming summer? I saw the brow of Idris clouded; I again felt,
that we were enchained to the car of fate, over whose coursers we had no control. We could
no longer say, This we will do, and this we will leave undone. A mightier power than the human
was at hand to destroy our plans or to achieve the work we avoided. It were madness to calculate
upon another winter. This was our last. The coming summer was the extreme end of our vista;
and, when we arrived there, instead of a continuation of the long road, a gulph yawned, into
which we must of force be precipitated. The last blessing of humanity was wrested from us;
we might no longer hope. Can the madman, as he clanks his chains, hope? Can the wretch, led
to the scaffold, who when he lays his head on the block, marks the double shadow of himself
and the executioner, whose uplifted arm bears the axe, hope? Can the ship-wrecked mariner,
who spent with swimming, hears close behind the splashing waters divided by a shark which pursues
him through the Atlantic, hope? Such hope as theirs, we also may entertain!

Old fable tells us, that this gentle spirit sprung from the box of Pandora, else crammed with
evils; but these were unseen and null, while all admired the inspiriting loveliness of young
Hope; each man's heart became her home; she was enthroned sovereign of our lives, here and
here-after; she was deified and worshipped, declared incorruptible and everlasting. But like
all other gifts of the Creator to Man, she is mortal; her life has attained its last hour.
We have watched over her; nursed her flickering existence; now she has fallen at once from
youth to decrepitude, from health to immedicinable disease; even as we spend ourselves in struggles
for her recovery, she dies; to all nations the voice goes forth, Hope is dead! We are but mourners
in the funeral train, and what immortal essence or perishable creation will refuse to make
one in the sad procession that attends to its grave the dead comforter of humanity?

  Does not the sun call in his light? and day
  Like a thin exhalation melt away--
  Both wrapping up their beams in clouds to be
  Themselves close mourners at this obsequie.[3]

[1] Wordsworth. [2] Prior's "Solomon." [3] Cleveland's Poems.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER I.

HEAR YOU not the rushing sound of the coming tempest? Do you not behold the clouds open, and
destruction lurid and dire pour down on the blasted earth? See you not the thunderbolt fall,
and are deafened by the shout of heaven that follows its descent? Feel you not the earth quake
and open with agonizing groans, while the air is pregnant with shrieks and wailings,-- all
announcing the last days of man? No! none of these things accompanied our fall! The balmy air
of spring, breathed from nature's ambrosial home, invested the lovely earth, which wakened
as a young mother about to lead forth in pride her beauteous offspring to meet their sire who
had been long absent. The buds decked the trees, the flowers adorned the land: the dark branches,
swollen with seasonable juices, expanded into leaves, and the variegated foliage of spring,
bending and singing in the breeze, rejoiced in the genial warmth of the unclouded empyrean:
the brooks flowed murmuring, the sea was waveless, and the promontories that over-hung it were
reflected in the placid waters; birds awoke in the woods, while abundant food for man and beast
sprung up from the dark ground. Where was pain and evil? Not in the calm air or weltering ocean;
not in the woods or fertile fields, nor among the birds that made the woods resonant with song,
nor the animals that in the midst of plenty basked in the sunshine. Our enemy, like the Calamity
of Homer, trod our hearts, and no sound was echoed from her steps--

  With ills the land is rife, with ills the sea,
  Diseases haunt our frail humanity,
  Through noon, through night, on casual wing they glide,
  Silent,--a voice the power all-wise denied.[1]

Once man was a favourite of the Creator, as the royal psalmist sang, "God had made him a little
lower than the angels, and had crowned him with glory and honour. God made him to have dominion
over the works of his hands, and put all things under his feet." Once it was so; now is man
lord of the creation? Look at him--ha! I see plague! She has invested his form, is incarnate
in his flesh, has entwined herself with his being, and blinds his heaven-seeking eyes. Lie
down, O man, on the flower-strown earth; give up all claim to your inheritance, all you can
ever possess of it is the small cell which the dead require. Plague is the companion of spring,
of sunshine, and plenty. We no longer struggle with her. We have forgotten what we did when
she was not. Of old navies used to stem the giant ocean-waves betwixt Indus and the Pole for
slight articles of luxury. Men made perilous journies to possess themselves of earth's splendid
trifles, gems and gold. Human labour was wasted--human life set at nought. Now life is all
that we covet; that this automaton of flesh should, with joints and springs in order, perform
its functions, that this dwelling of the soul should be capable of containing its dweller.
Our minds, late spread abroad through countless spheres and endless combinations of thought,
now retrenched themselves behind this wall of flesh, eager to preserve its well-being only.
We were surely sufficiently degraded.

At first the increase of sickness in spring brought increase of toil to such of us, who, as
yet spared to life, bestowed our time and thoughts on our fellow creatures. We nerved ourselves
to the task: "in the midst of despair we performed the tasks of hope." We went out with the
resolution of disputing with our foe. We aided the sick, and comforted the sorrowing; turning
from the multitudinous dead to the rare survivors, with an energy of desire that bore the resemblance
of power, we bade them--live. Plague sat paramount the while, and laughed us to scorn.

Have any of you, my readers, observed the ruins of an anthill immediately after its destruction?
At first it appears entirely deserted of its former inhabitants; in a little time you see an
ant struggling through the upturned mould; they reappear by twos and threes, running hither
and thither in search of their lost companions. Such were we upon earth, wondering aghast at
the effects of pestilence. Our empty habitations remained, but the dwellers were gathered to
the shades of the tomb.

As the rules of order and pressure of laws were lost, some began with hesitation and wonder
to transgress the accustomed uses of society. Palaces were deserted, and the poor man dared
at length, unreproved, intrude into the splendid apartments, whose very furniture and decorations
were an unknown world to him. It was found, that, though at first the stop put to to all circulation
of property, had reduced those before supported by the factitious wants of society to sudden
and hideous poverty, yet when the boundaries of private possession were thrown down, the products
of human labour at present existing were more, far more, than the thinned generation could
possibly consume. To some among the poor this was matter of exultation. We were all equal now;
magnificent dwellings, luxurious carpets, and beds of down, were afforded to all. Carriages
and horses, gardens, pictures, statues, and princely libraries, there were enough of these
even to superfluity; and there was nothing to prevent each from assuming possession of his
share. We were all equal now; but near at hand was an equality still more levelling, a state
where beauty and strength, and wisdom, would be as vain as riches and birth. The grave yawned
beneath us all, and its prospect prevented any of us from enjoying the ease and plenty which
in so awful a manner was presented to us.

Still the bloom did not fade on the cheeks of my babes; and Clara sprung up in years and growth,
unsullied by disease. We had no reason to think the site of Windsor Castle peculiarly healthy,
for many other families had expired beneath its roof; we lived therefore without any particular
precaution; but we lived, it seemed, in safety. If Idris became thin and pale, it was anxiety
that occasioned the change; an anxiety I could in no way alleviate. She never complained, but
sleep and appetite fled from her, a slow fever preyed on her veins, her colour was hectic,
and she often wept in secret; gloomy prognostications, care, and agonizing dread, ate up the
principle of life within her. I could not fail to perceive this change. I often wished that
I had permitted her to take her own course, and engage herself in such labours for the welfare
of others as might have distracted her thoughts. But it was too late now. Besides that, with
the nearly extinct race of man, all our toils grew near a conclusion, she was too weak; consumption,
if so it might be called, or rather the over active life within her, which, as with Adrian,
spent the vital oil in the early morning hours, deprived her limbs of strength. At night, when
she could leave me unperceived, she wandered through the house, or hung over the couches of
her children; and in the day time would sink into a perturbed sleep, while her murmurs and
starts betrayed the unquiet dreams that vexed her. As this state of wretchedness became more
confirmed, and, in spite of her endeavours at concealment more apparent, I strove, though vainly,
to awaken in her courage and hope. I could not wonder at the vehemence of her care; her very
soul was tenderness; she trusted indeed that she should not outlive me if I became the prey
of the vast calamity, and this thought sometimes relieved her. We had for many years trod the
highway of life hand in hand, and still thus linked, we might step within the shades of death;
but her children, her lovely, playful, animated children--beings sprung from her own dear side--portions
of her own being--depositories of our loves--even if we died, it would be comfort to know that
they ran man's accustomed course. But it would not be so; young and blooming as they were,
they would die, and from the hopes of maturity, from the proud name of attained manhood, they
were cut off for ever. Often with maternal affection she had figured their merits and talents
exerted on life's wide stage. Alas for these latter days! The world had grown old, and all
its inmates partook of the decrepitude. Why talk of infancy, manhood, and old age? We all stood
equal sharers of the last throes of time-worn nature. Arrived at the same point of the world's
age--there was no difference in us; the name of parent and child had lost their meaning; young
boys and girls were level now with men. This was all true; but it was not less agonizing to
take the admonition home.

Where could we turn, and not find a desolation pregnant with the dire lesson of example? The
fields had been left uncultivated, weeds and gaudy flowers sprung up,--or where a few wheat-fields
shewed signs of the living hopes of the husbandman, the work had been left halfway, the ploughman
had died beside the plough; the horses had deserted the furrow, and no seedsman had approached
the dead; the cattle unattended wandered over the fields and through the lanes; the tame inhabitants
of the poultry yard, baulked of their daily food, had become wild--young lambs were dropt in
flower-gardens, and the cow stalled in the hall of pleasure. Sickly and few, the country people
neither went out to sow nor reap; but sauntered about the meadows, or lay under the hedges,
when the inclement sky did not drive them to take shelter under the nearest roof. Many of those
who remained, secluded themselves; some had laid up stores which should prevent the necessity
of leaving their homes;--some deserted wife and child, and imagined that they secured their
safety in utter solitude. Such had been Ryland's plan, and he was discovered dead and half-devoured
by insects, in a house many miles from any other, with piles of food laid up in useless superfluity.
Others made long journies to unite themselves to those they loved, and arrived to find them dead.

London did not contain above a thousand inhabitants; and this number was continually diminishing.
Most of them were country people, come up for the sake of change; the Londoners had sought
the country. The busy eastern part of the town was silent, or at most you saw only where, half
from cupidity, half from curiosity, the warehouses had been more ransacked than pillaged: bales
of rich India goods, shawls of price, jewels, and spices, unpacked, strewed the floors. In
some places the possessor had to the last kept watch on his store, and died before the barred
gates. The massy portals of the churches swung creaking on their hinges; and some few lay dead
on the pavement. The wretched female, loveless victim of vulgar brutality, had wandered to
the toilet of high-born beauty, and, arraying herself in the garb of splendour, had died before
the mirror which reflected to herself alone her altered appearance. Women whose delicate feet
had seldom touched the earth in their luxury, had fled in fright and horror from their homes,
till, losing themselves in the squalid streets of the metropolis, they had died on the threshold
of poverty. The heart sickened at the variety of misery presented; and, when I saw a specimen
of this gloomy change, my soul ached with the fear of what might befall my beloved Idris and
my babes. Were they, surviving Adrian and myself, to find themselves protectorless in the world?
As yet the mind alone had suffered--could I for ever put off the time, when the delicate frame
and shrinking nerves of my child of prosperity, the nursling of rank and wealth, who was my
companion, should be invaded by famine, hardship, and disease? Better die at once--better plunge
a poinard in her bosom, still untouched by drear adversity, and then again sheathe it in my
own! But, no; in times of misery we must fight against our destinies, and strive not to be
overcome by them. I would not yield, but to the last gasp resolutely defended my dear ones
against sorrow and pain; and if I were vanquished at last, it should not be ingloriously. I
stood in the gap, resisting the enemy--the impalpable, invisible foe, who had so long besieged
us--as yet he had made no breach: it must be my care that he should not, secretly undermining,
burst up within the very threshold of the temple of love, at whose altar I daily sacrificed.
The hunger of Death was now stung more sharply by the diminution of his food: or was it that
before, the survivors being many, the dead were less eagerly counted? Now each life was a gem,
each human breathing form of far, O! far more worth than subtlest imagery of sculptured stone;
and the daily, nay, hourly decrease visible in our numbers, visited the heart with sickening
misery. This summer extinguished our hopes, the vessel of society was wrecked, and the shattered
raft, which carried the few survivors over the sea of misery, was riven and tempest tost. Man
existed by twos and threes; man, the individual who might sleep, and wake, and perform the
animal functions; but man, in himself weak, yet more powerful in congregated numbers than wind
or ocean; man, the queller of the elements, the lord of created nature, the peer of demi-gods,
existed no longer.

Farewell to the patriotic scene, to the love of liberty and well earned meed of virtuous aspiration!--farewell
to crowded senate, vocal with the councils of the wise, whose laws were keener than the sword
blade tempered at Damascus!--farewell to kingly pomp and warlike pageantry; the crowns are
in the dust, and the wearers are in their graves!--farewell to the desire of rule, and the
hope of victory; to high vaulting ambition, to the appetite for praise, and the craving for
the suffrage of their fellows! The nations are no longer! No senate sits in council for the
dead; no scion of a time honoured dynasty pants to rule over the inhabitants of a charnel house;
the general's hand is cold, and the soldier has his untimely grave dug in his native fields,
unhonoured, though in youth. The market-place is empty, the candidate for popular favour finds
none whom he can represent. To chambers of painted state farewell!--To midnight revelry, and
the panting emulation of beauty, to costly dress and birth-day shew, to title and the gilded
coronet, farewell!

Farewell to the giant powers of man,--to knowledge that could pilot the deep-drawing bark through
the opposing waters of shoreless ocean,--to science that directed the silken balloon through
the pathless air,--to the power that could put a barrier to mighty waters, and set in motion
wheels, and beams, and vast machinery, that could divide rocks of granite or marble, and make
the mountains plain!

Farewell to the arts,--to eloquence, which is to the human mind as the winds to the sea, stirring,
and then allaying it;--farewell to poetry and deep philosophy, for man's imagination is cold,
and his enquiring mind can no longer expatiate on the wonders of life, for "there is no work,
nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave, whither thou goest!"--to the graceful building,
which in its perfect proportion transcended the rude forms of nature, the fretted gothic and
massy saracenic pile, to the stupendous arch and glorious dome, the fluted column with its
capital, Corinthian, Ionic, or Doric, the peristyle and fair entablature, whose harmony of
form is to the eye as musical concord to the ear!--farewell to sculpture, where the pure marble
mocks human flesh, and in the plastic expression of the culled excellencies of the human shape,
shines forth the god!--farewell to painting, the high wrought sentiment and deep knowledge
of the artists's mind in pictured canvas--to paradisaical scenes, where trees are ever vernal,
and the ambrosial air rests in perpetual glow:--to the stamped form of tempest, and wildest
uproar of universal nature encaged in the narrow frame, O farewell! Farewell to music, and
the sound of song; to the marriage of instruments, where the concord of soft and harsh unites
in sweet harmony, and gives wings to the panting listeners, whereby to climb heaven, and learn
the hidden pleasures of the eternals!--Farewell to the well-trod stage; a truer tragedy is
enacted on the world's ample scene, that puts to shame mimic grief: to high-bred comedy, and
the low buffoon, farewell!--Man may laugh no more. Alas! to enumerate the adornments of humanity,
shews, by what we have lost, how supremely great man was. It is all over now. He is solitary;
like our first parents expelled from Paradise, he looks back towards the scene he has quitted.
The high walls of the tomb, and the flaming sword of plague, lie between it and him. Like to
our first parents, the whole earth is before him, a wide desart. Unsupported and weak, let
him wander through fields where the unreaped corn stands in barren plenty, through copses planted
by his fathers, through towns built for his use. Posterity is no more; fame, and ambition,
and love, are words void of meaning; even as the cattle that grazes in the field, do thou,
O deserted one, lie down at evening-tide, unknowing of the past, careless of the future, for
from such fond ignorance alone canst thou hope for ease!

Joy paints with its own colours every act and thought. The happy do not feel poverty--for delight
is as a gold-tissued robe, and crowns them with priceless gems. Enjoyment plays the cook to
their homely fare, and mingles intoxication with their simple drink. Joy strews the hard couch
with roses, and makes labour ease.

Sorrow doubles the burthen to the bent-down back; plants thorns in the unyielding pillow; mingles
gall with water; adds saltness to their bitter bread; cloathing them in rags, and strewing
ashes on their bare heads. To our irremediable distress every small and pelting inconvenience
came with added force; we had strung our frames to endure the Atlean weight thrown on us; we
sank beneath the added feather chance threw on us, "the grasshopper was a burthen." Many of
the survivors had been bred in luxury--their servants were gone, their powers of command vanished
like unreal shadows: the poor even suffered various privations; and the idea of another winter
like the last, brought affright to our minds. Was it not enough that we must die, but toil
must be added?--must we prepare our funeral repast with labour, and with unseemly drudgery
heap fuel on our deserted hearths --must we with servile hands fabricate the garments, soon
to be our shroud?

Not so! We are presently to die, let us then enjoy to its full relish the remnant of our lives.
Sordid care, avaunt! menial labours, and pains, slight in themselves, but too gigantic for
our exhausted strength, shall make no part of our ephemeral existences. In the beginning of
time, when, as now, man lived by families, and not by tribes or nations, they were placed in
a genial clime, where earth fed them untilled, and the balmy air enwrapt their reposing limbs
with warmth more pleasant than beds of down. The south is the native place of the human race;
the land of fruits, more grateful to man than the hard-earned Ceres of the north,--of trees,
whose boughs are as a palace-roof, of couches of roses, and of the thirst-appeasing grape.
We need not there fear cold and hunger.

Look at England! the grass shoots up high in the meadows; but they are dank and cold, unfit
bed for us. Corn we have none, and the crude fruits cannot support us. We must seek firing
in the bowels of the earth, or the unkind atmosphere will fill us with rheums and aches. The
labour of hundreds of thousands alone could make this inclement nook fit habitation for one
man. To the south then, to the sun!--where nature is kind, where Jove has showered forth the
contents of Amalthea's horn, and earth is garden.

England, late birth-place of excellence and school of the wise, thy children are gone, thy
glory faded! Thou, England, wert the triumph of man! Small favour was shewn thee by thy Creator,
thou Isle of the North; a ragged canvas naturally, painted by man with alien colours; but the
hues he gave are faded, never more to be renewed. So we must leave thee, thou marvel of the
world; we must bid farewell to thy clouds, and cold, and scarcity for ever! Thy manly hearts
are still; thy tale of power and liberty at its close! Bereft of man, O little isle! the ocean
waves will buffet thee, and the raven flap his wings over thee; thy soil will be birth-place
of weeds, thy sky will canopy barrenness. It was not for the rose of Persia thou wert famous,
nor the banana of the east; not for the spicy gales of India, nor the sugar groves of America;
not for thy vines nor thy double harvests, nor for thy vernal airs, nor solstitial sun--but
for thy children, their unwearied industry and lofty aspiration. They are gone, and thou goest
with them the oft trodden path that leads to oblivion, --

  Farewell, sad Isle, farewell, thy fatal glory
  Is summed, cast up, and cancelled in this story.[2]

[1] Elton's translation of Hesiod. [2] Cleveland's Poems.

CHAPTER II.

IN the autumn of this year 2096, the spirit of emigration crept in among the few survivors,
who, congregating from various parts of England, met in London. This spirit existed as a breath,
a wish, a far off thought, until communicated to Adrian, who imbibed it with ardour, and instantly
engaged himself in plans for its execution. The fear of immediate death vanished with the heats
of September. Another winter was before us, and we might elect our mode of passing it to the
best advantage. Perhaps in rational philosophy none could be better chosen than this scheme
of migration, which would draw us from the immediate scene of our woe, and, leading us through
pleasant and picturesque countries, amuse for a time our despair. The idea once broached, all
were impatient to put it in execution.

We were still at Windsor; our renewed hopes medicined the anguish we had suffered from the
late tragedies. The death of many of our inmates had weaned us from the fond idea, that Windsor
Castle was a spot sacred from the plague; but our lease of life was renewed for some months,
and even Idris lifted her head, as a lily after a storm, when a last sunbeam tinges its silver
cup. Just at this time Adrian came down to us; his eager looks shewed us that he was full of
some scheme. He hastened to take me aside, and disclosed to me with rapidity his plan of emigration
from England.

To leave England for ever! to turn from its polluted fields and groves, and, placing the sea
between us, to quit it, as a sailor quits the rock on which he has been wrecked, when the saving
ship rides by. Such was his plan.

To leave the country of our fathers, made holy by their graves!--We could not feel even as
a voluntary exile of old, who might for pleasure or convenience forsake his native soil; though
thousands of miles might divide him, England was still a part of him, as he of her. He heard
of the passing events of the day; he knew that, if he returned, and resumed his place in society,
the entrance was still open, and it required but the will, to surround himself at once with
the associations and habits of boyhood. Not so with us, the remnant. We left none to represent
us, none to repeople the desart land, and the name of England died, when we left her,

  In vagabond pursuit of dreadful safety.

Yet let us go! England is in her shroud,--we may not enchain ourselves to a corpse. Let us
go--the world is our country now, and we will choose for our residence its most fertile spot.
Shall we, in these desart halls, under this wintry sky, sit with closed eyes and folded hands,
expecting death? Let us rather go out to meet it gallantly: or perhaps--for all this pendulous
orb, this fair gem in the sky's diadem, is not surely plague-striken--perhaps, in some secluded
nook, amidst eternal spring, and waving trees, and purling streams, we may find Life. The world
is vast, and England, though her many fields and wide spread woods seem interminable, is but
a small part of her. At the close of a day's march over high mountains and through snowy vallies,
we may come upon health, and committing our loved ones to its charge, replant the uprooted
tree of humanity, and send to late posterity the tale of the ante-pestilential race, the heroes
and sages of the lost state of things.

Hope beckons and sorrow urges us, the heart beats high with expectation, and this eager desire
of change must be an omen of success. O come! Farewell to the dead! farewell to the tombs of
those we loved!--farewell to giant London and the placid Thames, to river and mountain or fair
district, birth-place of the wise and good, to Windsor Forest and its antique castle, farewell!
themes for story alone are they,--we must live elsewhere.

Such were in part the arguments of Adrian, uttered with enthusiasm and unanswerable rapidity.
Something more was in his heart, to which he dared not give words. He felt that the end of
time was come; he knew that one by one we should dwindle into nothingness. It was not adviseable
to wait this sad consummation in our native country; but travelling would give us our object
for each day, that would distract our thoughts from the swift-approaching end of things. If
we went to Italy, to sacred and eternal Rome, we might with greater patience submit to the
decree, which had laid her mighty towers low. We might lose our selfish grief in the sublime
aspect of its desolation. All this was in the mind of Adrian; but he thought of my children,
and, instead of communicating to me these resources of despair, he called up the image of health
and life to be found, where we knew not--when we knew not; but if never to be found, for ever
and for ever to be sought. He won me over to his party, heart and soul.

It devolved on me to disclose our plan to Idris. The images of health and hope which I presented
to her, made her with a smile consent. With a smile she agreed to leave her country, from which
she had never before been absent, and the spot she had inhabited from infancy; the forest and
its mighty trees, the woodland paths and green recesses, where she had played in childhood,
and had lived so happily through youth; she would leave them without regret, for she hoped
to purchase thus the lives of her children. They were her life; dearer than a spot consecrated
to love, dearer than all else the earth contained. The boys heard with childish glee of our
removal: Clara asked if we were to go to Athens. "It is possible," I replied; and her countenance
became radiant with pleasure. There she would behold the tomb of her parents, and the territory
filled with recollections of her father's glory. In silence, but without respite, she had brooded
over these scenes. It was the recollection of them that had turned her infant gaiety to seriousness,
and had impressed her with high and restless thoughts.

There were many dear friends whom we must not leave behind, humble though they were. There
was the spirited and obedient steed which Lord Raymond had given his daughter; there was Alfred's
dog and a pet eagle, whose sight was dimmed through age. But this catalogue of favourites to
be taken with us, could not be made without grief to think of our heavy losses, and a deep
sigh for the many things we must leave behind. The tears rushed into the eyes of Idris, while
Alfred and Evelyn brought now a favourite rose tree, now a marble vase beautifully carved,
insisting that these must go, and exclaiming on the pity that we could not take the castle
and the forest, the deer and the birds, and all accustomed and cherished objects along with
us. "Fond and foolish ones," I said, "we have lost for ever treasures far more precious than
these; and we desert them, to preserve treasures to which in comparison they are nothing. Let
us not for a moment forget our object and our hope; and they will form a resistless mound to
stop the overflowing of our regret for trifles."

The children were easily distracted, and again returned to their prospect of future amusement.
Idris had disappeared. She had gone to hide her weakness; escaping from the castle, she had
descended to the little park, and sought solitude, that she might there indulge her tears;
I found her clinging round an old oak, pressing its rough trunk with her roseate lips, as her
tears fell plenteously, and her sobs and broken exclamations could not be suppressed; with
surpassing grief I beheld this loved one of my heart thus lost in sorrow! I drew her towards
me; and, as she felt my kisses on her eyelids, as she felt my arms press her, she revived to
the knowledge of what remained to her. "You are very kind not to reproach me," she said: "I
weep, and a bitter pang of intolerable sorrow tears my heart. And yet I am happy; mothers lament
their children, wives lose their husbands, while you and my children are left to me. Yes, I
am happy, most happy, that I can weep thus for imaginary sorrows, and that the slight loss
of my adored country is not dwindled and annihilated in mightier misery. Take me where you
will; where you and my children are, there shall be Windsor, and every country will be England
to me. Let these tears flow not for myself, happy and ungrateful as I am, but for the dead
world--for our lost country--for all of love, and life, and joy, now choked in the dusty chambers
of death."

She spoke quickly, as if to convince herself; she turned her eyes from the trees and forest-paths
she loved; she hid her face in my bosom, and we-- yes, my masculine firmness dissolved--we
wept together consolatory tears, and then calm--nay, almost cheerful, we returned to the castle.

The first cold weather of an English October, made us hasten our preparations. I persuaded
Idris to go up to London, where she might better attend to necessary arrangements. I did not
tell her, that to spare her the pang of parting from inanimate objects, now the only things
left, I had resolved that we should none of us return to Windsor. For the last time we looked
on the wide extent of country visible from the terrace, and saw the last rays of the sun tinge
the dark masses of wood variegated by autumnal tints; the uncultivated fields and smokeless
cottages lay in shadow below; the Thames wound through the wide plain, and the venerable pile
of Eton college, stood in dark relief, a prominent object; the cawing of the myriad rooks which
inhabited the trees of the little park, as in column or thick wedge they speeded to their nests,
disturbed the silence of evening. Nature was the same, as when she was the kind mother of the
human race; now, childless and forlorn, her fertility was a mockery; her loveliness a mask
for deformity. Why should the breeze gently stir the trees, man felt not its refreshment? Why
did dark night adorn herself with stars--man saw them not? Why are there fruits, or flowers,
or streams, man is not here to enjoy them?

Idris stood beside me, her dear hand locked in mine. Her face was radiant with a smile.--"The
sun is alone," she said, "but we are not. A strange star, my Lionel, ruled our birth; sadly
and with dismay we may look upon the annihilation of man; but we remain for each other. Did
I ever in the wide world seek other than thee? And since in the wide world thou remainest,
why should I complain? Thou and nature are still true to me. Beneath the shades of night, and
through the day, whose garish light displays our solitude, thou wilt still be at my side, and
even Windsor will not be regretted."

I had chosen night time for our journey to London, that the change and desolation of the country
might be the less observable. Our only surviving servant drove us. We past down the steep hill,
and entered the dusky avenue of the Long Walk. At times like these, minute circumstances assume
giant and majestic proportions; the very swinging open of the white gate that admitted us into
the forest, arrested my thoughts as matter of interest; it was an every day act, never to occur
again! The setting crescent of the moon glittered through the massy trees to our right, and
when we entered the park, we scared a troop of deer, that fled bounding away in the forest
shades. Our two boys quietly slept; once, before our road turned from the view, I looked back
on the castle. Its windows glistened in the moonshine, and its heavy outline lay in a dark
mass against the sky--the trees near us waved a solemn dirge to the midnight breeze. Idris
leaned back in the carriage; her two hands pressed mine, her countenance was placid, she seemed
to lose the sense of what she now left, in the memory of what she still possessed.

My thoughts were sad and solemn, yet not of unmingled pain. The very excess of our misery carried
a relief with it, giving sublimity and elevation to sorrow. I felt that I carried with me those
I best loved; I was pleased, after a long separation to rejoin Adrian; never again to part.
I felt that I quitted what I loved, not what loved me. The castle walls, and long familiar
trees, did not hear the parting sound of our carriage-wheels with regret. And, while I felt
Idris to be near, and heard the regular breathing of my children, I could not be unhappy. Clara
was greatly moved; with streaming eyes, suppressing her sobs, she leaned from the window, watching
the last glimpse of her native Windsor.

Adrian welcomed us on our arrival. He was all animation; you could no longer trace in his look
of health, the suffering valetudinarian; from his smile and sprightly tones you could not guess
that he was about to lead forth from their native country, the numbered remnant of the English
nation, into the tenantless realms of the south, there to die, one by one, till the LAST MAN
should remain in a voiceless, empty world.

Adrian was impatient for our departure, and had advanced far in his preparations. His wisdom
guided all. His care was the soul, to move the luckless crowd, who relied wholly on him. It
was useless to provide many things, for we should find abundant provision in every town. It
was Adrian's wish to prevent all labour; to bestow a festive appearance on this funeral train.
Our numbers amounted to not quite two thousand persons. These were not all assembled in London,
but each day witnessed the arrival of fresh numbers, and those who resided in the neighbouring
towns, had received orders to assemble at one place, on the twentieth of November. Carriages
and horses were provided for all; captains and under officers chosen, and the whole assemblage
wisely organized. All obeyed the Lord Protector of dying England; all looked up to him. His
council was chosen, it consisted of about fifty persons. Distinction and station were not the
qualifications of their election. We had no station among us, but that which benevolence and
prudence gave; no distinction save between the living and the dead. Although we were anxious
to leave England before the depth of winter, yet we were detained. Small parties had been dispatched
to various parts of England, in search of stragglers; we would not go, until we had assured
ourselves that in all human probability we did not leave behind a single human being.

On our arrival in London, we found that the aged Countess of Windsor was residing with her
son in the palace of the Protectorate; we repaired to our accustomed abode near Hyde Park.
Idris now for the first time for many years saw her mother, anxious to assure herself that
the childishness of old age did not mingle with unforgotten pride, to make this high-born dame
still so inveterate against me. Age and care had furrowed her cheeks, and bent her form; but
her eye was still bright, her manners authoritative and unchanged; she received her daughter
coldly, but displayed more feeling as she folded her grand-children in her arms. It is our
nature to wish to continue our systems and thoughts to posterity through our own offspring.
The Countess had failed in this design with regard to her children; perhaps she hoped to find
the next remove in birth more tractable. Once Idris named me casually--a frown, a convulsive
gesture of anger, shook her mother, and, with voice trembling with hate, she said--"I am of
little worth in this world; the young are impatient to push the old off the scene; but, Idris,
if you do not wish to see your mother expire at your feet, never again name that person to
me; all else I can bear; and now I am resigned to the destruction of my cherished hopes: but
it is too much to require that I should love the instrument that providence gifted with murderous
properties for my destruction."

This was a strange speech, now that, on the empty stage, each might play his part without impediment
from the other. But the haughty Ex-Queen thought as Octavius Caesar and Mark Antony,

  We could not stall together
  In the whole world.

The period of our departure was fixed for the twenty-fifth of November. The weather was temperate;
soft rains fell at night, and by day the wintry sun shone out. Our numbers were to move forward
in separate parties, and to go by different routes, all to unite at last at Paris. Adrian and
his division, consisting in all of five hundred persons, were to take the direction of Dover
and Calais. On the twentieth of November, Adrian and I rode for the last time through the streets
of London. They were grass-grown and desert. The open doors of the empty mansions creaked upon
their hinges; rank herbage, and deforming dirt, had swiftly accumulated on the steps of the
houses; the voiceless steeples of the churches pierced the smokeless air; the churches were
open, but no prayer was offered at the altars; mildew and damp had already defaced their ornaments;
birds, and tame animals, now homeless, had built nests, and made their lairs in consecrated
spots. We passed St. Paul's. London, which had extended so far in suburbs in all direction,
had been somewhat deserted in the midst, and much of what had in former days obscured this
vast building was removed. Its ponderous mass, blackened stone, and high dome, made it look,
not like a temple, but a tomb. Methought above the portico was engraved the Hic jacet of England.
We passed on eastwards, engaged in such solemn talk as the times inspired. No human step was
heard, nor human form discerned. Troops of dogs, deserted of their masters, passed us; and
now and then a horse, unbridled and unsaddled, trotted towards us, and tried to attract the
attention of those which we rode, as if to allure them to seek like liberty. An unwieldy ox,
who had fed in an abandoned granary, suddenly lowed, and shewed his shapeless form in a narrow
door-way; every thing was desert; but nothing was in ruin. And this medley of undamaged buildings,
and luxurious accommodation, in trim and fresh youth, was contrasted with the lonely silence
of the unpeopled streets.

Night closed in, and it began to rain. We were about to return homewards, when a voice, a human
voice, strange now to hear, attracted our attention. It was a child singing a merry, lightsome
air; there was no other sound. We had traversed London from Hyde Park even to where we now
were in the Minories, and had met no person, heard no voice nor footstep. The singing was interrupted
by laughing and talking; never was merry ditty so sadly timed, never laughter more akin to
tears. The door of the house from which these sounds proceeded was open, the upper rooms were
illuminated as for a feast. It was a large magnificent house, in which doubtless some rich
merchant had lived. The singing again commenced, and rang through the high-roofed rooms, while
we silently ascended the stair-case. Lights now appeared to guide us; and a long suite of splendid
rooms illuminated, made us still more wonder. Their only inhabitant, a little girl, was dancing,
waltzing, and singing about them, followed by a large Newfoundland dog, who boisterously jumping
on her, and interrupting her, made her now scold, now laugh, now throw herself on the carpet
to play with him. She was dressed grotesquely, in glittering robes and shawls fit for a woman;
she appeared about ten years of age. We stood at the door looking on this strange scene, till
the dog perceiving us barked loudly; the child turned and saw us: her face, losing its gaiety,
assumed a sullen expression: she slunk back, apparently meditating an escape. I came up to
her, and held her hand; she did not resist, but with a stern brow, so strange in childhood,
so different from her former hilarity, she stood still, her eyes fixed on the ground. "What
do you do here?" I said gently; "Who are you?"--she was silent, but trembled violently.--"My
poor child," asked Adrian, "are you alone?" There was a winning softness in his voice, that
went to the heart of the little girl; she looked at him, then snatching her hand from me, threw
herself into his arms, clinging round his neck, ejaculating--"Save me! save me!" while her
unnatural sullenness dissolved in tears.

"I will save you," he replied, "of what are you afraid? you need not fear my friend, he will
do you no harm. Are you alone?"

"No, Lion is with me."

"And your father and mother?--"

"I never had any; I am a charity girl. Every body is gone, gone for a great, great many days;
but if they come back and find me out, they will beat me so!"

Her unhappy story was told in these few words: an orphan, taken on pretended charity, ill-treated
and reviled, her oppressors had died: unknowing of what had passed around her, she found herself
alone; she had not dared venture out, but by the continuance of her solitude her courage revived,
her childish vivacity caused her to play a thousand freaks, and with her brute companion she
passed a long holiday, fearing nothing but the return of the harsh voices and cruel usage of
her protectors. She readily consented to go with Adrian.

In the mean time, while we descanted on alien sorrows, and on a solitude which struck our eyes
and not our hearts, while we imagined all of change and suffering that had intervened in these
once thronged streets, before, tenantless and abandoned, they became mere kennels for dogs,
and stables for cattle:--while we read the death of the world upon the dark fane, and hugged
ourselves in the remembrance that we possessed that which was all the world to us--in the meanwhile---

We had arrived from Windsor early in October, and had now been in London about six weeks. Day
by day, during that time, the health of my Idris declined: her heart was broken; neither sleep
nor appetite, the chosen servants of health, waited on her wasted form. To watch her children
hour by hour, to sit by me, drinking deep the dear persuasion that I remained to her, was all
her pastime. Her vivacity, so long assumed, her affectionate display of cheerfulness, her light-hearted
tone and springy gait were gone. I could not disguise to myself, nor could she conceal, her
life-consuming sorrow. Still change of scene, and reviving hopes might restore her; I feared
the plague only, and she was untouched by that.

I had left her this evening, reposing after the fatigues of her preparations. Clara sat beside
her, relating a story to the two boys. The eyes of Idris were closed: but Clara perceived a
sudden change in the appearance of our eldest darling; his heavy lids veiled his eyes, an unnatural
colour burnt in his cheeks, his breath became short. Clara looked at the mother; she slept,
yet started at the pause the narrator made-- Fear of awakening and alarming her, caused Clara
to go on at the eager call of Evelyn, who was unaware of what was passing. Her eyes turned
alternately from Alfred to Idris; with trembling accents she continued her tale, till she saw
the child about to fall: starting forward she caught him, and her cry roused Idris. She looked
on her son. She saw death stealing across his features; she laid him on a bed, she held drink
to his parched lips.

Yet he might be saved. If I were there, he might be saved; perhaps it was not the plague. Without
a counsellor, what could she do? stay and behold him die! Why at that moment was I away? "Look
to him, Clara," she exclaimed, "I will return immediately."

She inquired among those who, selected as the companions of our journey, had taken up their
residence in our house; she heard from them merely that I had gone out with Adrian. She entreated
them to seek me: she returned to her child, he was plunged in a frightful state of torpor;
again she rushed down stairs; all was dark, desert, and silent; she lost all self-possession;
she ran into the street; she called on my name. The pattering rain and howling wind alone replied
to her. Wild fear gave wings to her feet; she darted forward to seek me, she knew not where;
but, putting all her thoughts, all her energy, all her being in speed only, most misdirected
speed, she neither felt, nor feared, nor paused, but ran right on, till her strength suddenly
deserted her so suddenly, that she had not thought to save herself. Her knees failed her, and
she fell heavily on the pavement. She was stunned for a time; but at length rose, and though
sorely hurt, still walked on, shedding a fountain of tears, stumbling at times, going she knew
not whither, only now and then with feeble voice she called my name, adding with heart-piercing
exclamations, that I was cruel and unkind. Human being there was none to reply; and the inclemency
of the night had driven the wandering animals to the habitations they had usurped. Her thin
dress was drenched with rain; her wet hair clung round her neck; she tottered through the dark
streets; till, striking her foot against an unseen impediment, she again fell; she could not
rise; she hardly strove; but, gathering up her limbs, she resigned herself to the fury of the
elements, and the bitter grief of her own heart. She breathed an earnest prayer to die speedily,
for there was no relief but death. While hopeless of safety for herself, she ceased to lament
for her dying child, but shed kindly, bitter tears for the grief I should experience in losing
her. While she lay, life almost suspended, she felt a warm, soft hand on her brow, and a gentle
female voice asked her, with expressions of tender compassion, if she could not rise? That
another human being, sympathetic and kind, should exist near, roused her; half rising, with
clasped hands, and fresh springing tears, she entreated her companion to seek for me, to bid
me hasten to my dying child, to save him, for the love of heaven, to save him!

The woman raised her; she led her under shelter, she entreated her to return to her home, whither
perhaps I had already returned. Idris easily yielded to her persuasions, she leaned on the
arm of her friend, she endeavoured to walk on, but irresistible faintness made her pause again
and again.

Quickened by the encreasing storm, we had hastened our return, our little charge was placed
before Adrian on his horse. There was an assemblage of persons under the portico of our house,
in whose gestures I instinctively read some heavy change, some new misfortune. With swift alarm,
afraid to ask a single question, I leapt from my horse; the spectators saw me, knew me, and
in awful silence divided to make way for me. I snatched a light, and rushing up stairs, and
hearing a groan, without reflection I threw open the door of the first room that presented
itself. It was quite dark; but, as I stept within, a pernicious scent assailed my senses, producing
sickening qualms, which made their way to my very heart, while I felt my leg clasped, and a
groan repeated by the person that held me. I lowered my lamp, and saw a negro half clad, writhing
under the agony of disease, while he held me with a convulsive grasp. With mixed horror and
impatience I strove to disengage myself, and fell on the sufferer; he wound his naked festering
arms round me, his face was close to mine, and his breath, death-laden, entered my vitals.
For a moment I was overcome, my head was bowed by aching nausea; till, reflection returning,
I sprung up, threw the wretch from me, and darting up the staircase, entered the chamber usually
inhabited by my family. A dim light shewed me Alfred on a couch; Clara trembling, and paler
than whitest snow, had raised him on her arm, holding a cup of water to his lips. I saw full
well that no spark of life existed in that ruined form, his features were rigid, his eyes glazed,
his head had fallen back. I took him from her, I laid him softly down, kissed his cold little
mouth, and turned to speak in a vain whisper, when loudest sound of thunderlike cannon could
not have reached him in his immaterial abode.

And where was Idris? That she had gone out to seek me, and had not returned, were fearful tidings,
while the rain and driving wind clattered against the window, and roared round the house. Added
to this, the sickening sensation of disease gained upon me; no time was to be lost, if ever
I would see her again. I mounted my horse and rode out to seek her, fancying that I heard her
voice in every gust, oppressed by fever and aching pain.

I rode in the dark and rain through the labyrinthine streets of unpeopled London. My child
lay dead at home; the seeds of mortal disease had taken root in my bosom; I went to seek Idris,
my adored, now wandering alone, while the waters were rushing from heaven like a cataract to
bathe her dear head in chill damp, her fair limbs in numbing cold. A female stood on the step
of a door, and called to me as I gallopped past. It was not Idris; so I rode swiftly on, until
a kind of second sight, a reflection back again on my senses of what I had seen but not marked,
made me feel sure that another figure, thin, graceful and tall, stood clinging to the foremost
person who supported her. In a minute I was beside the suppliant, in a minute I received the
sinking Idris in my arms. Lifting her up, I placed her on the horse; she had not strength to
support herself; so I mounted behind her, and held her close to my bosom, wrapping my riding-cloak
round her, while her companion, whose well known, but changed countenance, (it was Juliet,
daughter of the Duke of L---) could at this moment of horror obtain from me no more than a
passing glance of compassion. She took the abandoned rein, and conducted our obedient steed
homewards. Dare I avouch it? That was the last moment of my happiness; but I was happy. Idris
must die, for her heart was broken: I must die, for I had caught the plague; earth was a scene
of desolation; hope was madness; life had married death; they were one; but, thus supporting
my fainting love, thus feeling that I must soon die, I revelled in the delight of possessing
her once more; again and again I kissed her, and pressed her to my heart.

We arrived at our home. I assisted her to dismount, I carried her up stairs, and gave her into
Clara's care, that her wet garments might be changed. Briefly I assured Adrian of her safety,
and requested that we might be left to repose. As the miser, who with trembling caution visits
his treasure to count it again and again, so I numbered each moment, and grudged every one
that was not spent with Idris. I returned swiftly to the chamber where the life of my life
reposed; before I entered the room I paused for a few seconds; for a few seconds I tried to
examine my state; sickness and shuddering ever and anon came over me; my head was heavy, my
chest oppressed, my legs bent under me; but I threw off resolutely the swift growing symptoms
of my disorder, and met Idris with placid and even joyous looks. She was lying on a couch;
carefully fastening the door to prevent all intrusion; I sat by her, we embraced, and our lips
met in a kiss long drawn and breathless--would that moment had been my last!

Maternal feeling now awoke in my poor girl's bosom, and she asked: "And Alfred?"

"Idris," I replied, "we are spared to each other, we are together; do not let any other idea
intrude. I am happy; even on this fatal night, I declare myself happy, beyond all name, all
thought--what would you more, sweet one?"

Idris understood me: she bowed her head on my shoulder and wept. "Why," she again asked, "do
you tremble, Lionel, what shakes you thus?"

"Well may I be shaken," I replied, "happy as I am. Our child is dead, and the present hour
is dark and ominous. Well may I tremble! but, I am happy, mine own Idris, most happy."

"I understand thee, my kind love," said Idris, "thus--pale as thou art with sorrow at our loss;
trembling and aghast, though wouldest assuage my grief by thy dear assurances. I am not happy,"
(and the tears flashed and fell from under her down-cast lids), "for we are inmates of a miserable
prison, and there is no joy for us; but the true love I bear you will render this and every
other loss endurable."

"We have been happy together, at least," I said; "no future misery can deprive us of the past.
We have been true to each other for years, ever since my sweet princess-love came through the
snow to the lowly cottage of the poverty-striken heir of the ruined Verney. Even now, that
eternity is before us, we take hope only from the presence of each other. Idris, do you think,
that when we die, we shall be divided?"

"Die! when we die! what mean you? What secret lies hid from me in those dreadful words?"

"Must we not all die, dearest?" I asked with a sad smile.

"Gracious God! are you ill, Lionel, that you speak of death? My only friend, heart of my heart,
speak!"

"I do not think," replied I, "that we have any of us long to live; and when the curtain drops
on this mortal scene, where, think you, we shall find ourselves?" Idris was calmed by my unembarrassed
tone and look; she answered:--"You may easily believe that during this long progress of the
plague, I have thought much on death, and asked myself, now that all mankind is dead to this
life, to what other life they may have been borne. Hour after hour, I have dwelt on these thoughts,
and strove to form a rational conclusion concerning the mystery of a future state. What a scare-crow,
indeed, would death be, if we were merely to cast aside the shadow in which we now walk, and,
stepping forth into the unclouded sunshine of knowledge and love, revived with the same companions,
the same affections, and reached the fulfilment of our hopes, leaving our fears with our earthly
vesture in the grave. Alas! the same strong feeling which makes me sure that I shall not wholly
die, makes me refuse to believe that I shall live wholly as I do now. Yet, Lionel, never, never,
can I love any but you; through eternity I must desire your society; and, as I am innocent
of harm to others, and as relying and confident as my mortal nature permits, I trust that the
Ruler of the world will never tear us asunder."

"Your remarks are like yourself, dear love," replied I, "gentle and good; let us cherish such
a belief, and dismiss anxiety from our minds. But, sweet, we are so formed, (and there is no
sin, if God made our nature, to yield to what he ordains), we are so formed, that we must love
life, and cling to it; we must love the living smile, the sympathetic touch, and thrilling
voice, peculiar to our mortal mechanism. Let us not, through security in hereafter, neglect
the present. This present moment, short as it is, is a part of eternity, and the dearest part,
since it is our own unalienably. Thou, the hope of my futurity, art my present joy. Let me
then look on thy dear eyes, and, reading love in them, drink intoxicating pleasure."

Timidly, for my vehemence somewhat terrified her, Idris looked on me. My eyes were bloodshot,
starting from my head; every artery beat, methought, audibly, every muscle throbbed, each single
nerve felt. Her look of wild affright told me, that I could no longer keep my secret:--"So
it is, mine own beloved," I said, "the last hour of many happy ones is arrived, nor can we
shun any longer the inevitable destiny. I cannot live long--but, again and again, I say, this
moment is ours!"

Paler than marble, with white lips and convulsed features, Idris became aware of my situation.
My arm, as I sat, encircled her waist. She felt the palm burn with fever, even on the heart
it pressed:--"One moment," she murmured, scarce audibly, "only one moment."--

She kneeled, and hiding her face in her hands, uttered a brief, but earnest prayer, that she
might fulfil her duty, and watch over me to the last. While there was hope, the agony had been
unendurable;--all was now concluded; her feelings became solemn and calm. Even as Epicharis,
unperturbed and firm, submitted to the instruments of torture, did Idris, suppressing every
sigh and sign of grief, enter upon the endurance of torments, of which the rack and the wheel
are but faint and metaphysical symbols.

I was changed; the tight-drawn cord that sounded so harshly was loosened, the moment that Idris
participated in my knowledge of our real situation. The perturbed and passion-tossed waves
of thought subsided, leaving only the heavy swell that kept right on without any outward manifestation
of its disturbance, till it should break on the remote shore towards which I rapidly advanced:--"It
is true that I am sick," I said, "and your society, my Idris is my only medicine; come, and
sit beside me."

She made me lie down on the couch, and, drawing a low ottoman near, sat close to my pillow,
pressing my burning hands in her cold palms. She yielded to my feverish restlessness, and let
me talk, and talked to me, on subjects strange indeed to beings, who thus looked the last,
and heard the last, of what they loved alone in the world. We talked of times gone by; of the
happy period of our early love; of Raymond, Perdita, and Evadne. We talked of what might arise
on this desert earth, if, two or three being saved, it were slowly re-peopled.--We talked of
what was beyond the tomb; and, man in his human shape being nearly extinct, we felt with certainty
of faith, that other spirits, other minds, other perceptive beings, sightless to us, must people
with thought and love this beauteous and imperishable universe.

We talked--I know not how long--but, in the morning I awoke from a painful heavy slumber; the
pale cheek of Idris rested on my pillow; the large orbs of her eyes half raised the lids, and
shewed the deep blue lights beneath; her lips were unclosed, and the slight murmurs they formed
told that, even while asleep, she suffered. "If she were dead," I thought, "what difference?
now that form is the temple of a residing deity; those eyes are the windows of her soul; all
grace, love, and intelligence are throned on that lovely bosom--were she dead, where would
this mind, the dearer half of mine, be? For quickly the fair proportion of this edifice would
be more defaced, than are the sand-choked ruins of the desert temples of Palmyra."

CHAPTER III.

IDRIS stirred and awoke; alas! she awoke to misery. She saw the signs of disease on my countenance,
and wondered how she could permit the long night to pass without her having sought, not cure,
that was impossible, but alleviation to my sufferings. She called Adrian; my couch was quickly
surrounded by friends and assistants, and such medicines as were judged fitting were administered.
It was the peculiar and dreadful distinction of our visitation, that none who had been attacked
by the pestilence had recovered. The first symptom of the disease was the death-warrant, which
in no single instance had been followed by pardon or reprieve. No gleam of hope therefore cheered
my friends.

While fever producing torpor, heavy pains, sitting like lead on my limbs, and making my breast
heave, were upon me; I continued insensible to every thing but pain, and at last even to that.
I awoke on the fourth morning as from a dreamless sleep. An irritating sense of thirst, and,
when I strove to speak or move, an entire dereliction of power, was all I felt.

For three days and nights Idris had not moved from my side. She administered to all my wants,
and never slept nor rested. She did not hope; and therefore she neither endeavoured to read
the physician's countenance, nor to watch for symptoms of recovery. All her thought was to
attend on me to the last, and then to lie down and die beside me. On the third night animation
was suspended; to the eye and touch of all I was dead. With earnest prayer, almost with force,
Adrian tried to draw Idris from me. He exhausted every adjuration, her child's welfare and
his own. She shook her head, and wiped a stealing tear from her sunk cheek, but would not yield;
she entreated to be allowed to watch me that one night only, with such affliction and meek
earnestness, that she gained her point, and sat silent and motionless, except when, stung by
intolerable remembrance, she kissed my closed eyes and pallid lips, and pressed my stiffening
hands to her beating heart.

At dead of night, when, though it was mid winter, the cock crowed at three o'clock, as herald
of the morning change, while hanging over me, and mourning in silent, bitter thought for the
loss of all of love towards her that had been enshrined in my heart; her dishevelled hair hung
over her face, and the long tresses fell on the bed; she saw one ringlet in motion, and the
scattered hair slightly stirred, as by a breath. It is not so, she thought, for he will never
breathe more. Several times the same thing occurred, and she only marked it by the same reflection;
till the whole ringlet waved back, and she thought she saw my breast heave. Her first emotion
was deadly fear, cold dew stood on her brow; my eyes half opened; and, re-assured, she would
have exclaimed, "He lives!" but the words were choked by a spasm, and she fell with a groan
on the floor.

Adrian was in the chamber. After long watching, he had unwillingly fallen into a sleep. He
started up, and beheld his sister senseless on the earth, weltering in a stream of blood that
gushed from her mouth. Encreasing signs of life in me in some degree explained her state; the
surprise, the burst of joy, the revulsion of every sentiment, had been too much for her frame,
worn by long months of care, late shattered by every species of woe and toil. She was now in
far greater danger than I, the wheels and springs of my life, once again set in motion, acquired
elasticity from their short suspension. For a long time, no one believed that I should indeed
continue to live; during the reign of the plague upon earth, not one person, attacked by the
grim disease, had recovered. My restoration was looked on as a deception; every moment it was
expected that the evil symptoms would recur with redoubled violence, until confirmed convalescence,
absence of all fever or pain, and encreasing strength, brought slow conviction that I had recovered
from the plague.

The restoration of Idris was more problematical. When I had been attacked by illness, her cheeks
were sunk, her form emaciated; but now, the vessel, which had broken from the effects of extreme
agitation, did not entirely heal, but was as a channel that drop by drop drew from her the
ruddy stream that vivified her heart. Her hollow eyes and worn countenance had a ghastly appearance;
her cheek-bones, her open fair brow, the projection of the mouth, stood fearfully prominent;
you might tell each bone in the thin anatomy of her frame. Her hand hung powerless; each joint
lay bare, so that the light penetrated through and through. It was strange that life could
exist in what was wasted and worn into a very type of death.

To take her from these heart-breaking scenes, to lead her to forget the world's desolation
in the variety of objects presented by travelling, and to nurse her failing strength in the
mild climate towards which we had resolved to journey, was my last hope for her preservation.
The preparations for our departure, which had been suspended during my illness, were renewed.
I did not revive to doubtful convalescence; health spent her treasures upon me; as the tree
in spring may feel from its wrinkled limbs the fresh green break forth, and the living sap
rise and circulate, so did the renewed vigour of my frame, the cheerful current of my blood,
the new-born elasticity of my limbs, influence my mind to cheerful endurance and pleasurable
thoughts. My body, late the heavy weight that bound me to the tomb, was exuberant with health;
mere common exercises were insufficient for my reviving strength; methought I could emulate
the speed of the race-horse, discern through the air objects at a blinding distance, hear the
operations of nature in her mute abodes; my senses had become so refined and susceptible after
my recovery from mortal disease.

Hope, among my other blessings, was not denied to me; and I did fondly trust that my unwearied
attentions would restore my adored girl. I was therefore eager to forward our preparations.
According to the plan first laid down, we were to have quitted London on the twenty-fifth of
November; and, in pursuance of this scheme, two-thirds of our people--thepeople-- all that
remained of England, had gone forward, and had already been some weeks in Paris. First my illness,
and subsequently that of Idris, had detained Adrian with his division, which consisted of three
hundred persons, so that we now departed on the first of January, 2098. It was my wish to keep
Idris as distant as possible from the hurry and clamour of the crowd, and to hide from her
those appearances that would remind her most forcibly of our real situation. We separated ourselves
to a great degree from Adrian, who was obliged to give his whole time to public business. The
Countess of Windsor travelled with her son. Clara, Evelyn, and a female who acted as our attendant,
were the only persons with whom we had contact. We occupied a commodious carriage, our servant
officiated as coachman. A party of about twenty persons preceded us at a small distance. They
had it in charge to prepare our halting places and our nightly abode. They had been selected
for this service out of a great number that offered, on account of the superior sagacity of
the man who had been appointed their leader.

Immediately on our departure, I was delighted to find a change in Idris, which I fondly hoped
prognosticated the happiest results. All the cheerfulness and gentle gaiety natural to her
revived. She was weak, and this alteration was rather displayed in looks and voice than in
acts; but it was permanent and real. My recovery from the plague and confirmed health instilled
into her a firm belief that I was now secure from this dread enemy. She told me that she was
sure she should recover. That she had a presentiment, that the tide of calamity which deluged
our unhappy race had now turned. That the remnant would be preserved, and among them the dear
objects of her tender affection; and that in some selected spot we should wear out our lives
together in pleasant society. "Do not let my state of feebleness deceive you," she said; "I
feel that I am better; there is a quick life within me, and a spirit of anticipation that assures
me, that I shall continue long to make a part of this world. I shall throw off this degrading
weakness of body, which infects even my mind with debility, and I shall enter again on the
performance of my duties. I was sorry to leave Windsor: but now I am weaned from this local
attachment; I am content to remove to a mild climate, which will complete my recovery. Trust
me, dearest, I shall neither leave you, nor my brother, nor these dear children; my firm determination
to remain with you to the last, and to continue to contribute to your happiness and welfare,
would keep me alive, even if grim death were nearer at hand than he really is."

I was only half re-assured by these expressions; I could not believe that the over-quick flow
of her blood was a sign of health, or that her burning cheeks denoted convalescence. But I
had no fears of an immediate catastrophe; nay, I persuaded myself that she would ultimately
recover. And thus cheerfulness reigned in our little society. Idris conversed with animation
on a thousand topics. Her chief desire was to lead our thoughts from melancholy reflections;
so she drew charming pictures of a tranquil solitude, of a beauteous retreat, of the simple
manners of our little tribe, and of the patriarchal brotherhood of love, which would survive
the ruins of the populous nations which had lately existed. We shut out from our thoughts the
present, and withdrew our eyes from the dreary landscape we traversed. Winter reigned in all
its gloom. The leafless trees lay without motion against the dun sky; the forms of frost, mimicking
the foliage of summer, strewed the ground; the paths were overgrown; the unploughed cornfields
were patched with grass and weeds; the sheep congregated at the threshold of the cottage, the
horned ox thrust his head from the window. The wind was bleak, and frequent sleet or snow-storms,
added to the melancholy appearance wintry nature assumed.

We arrived at Rochester, and an accident caused us to be detained there a day. During that
time, a circumstance occurred that changed our plans, and which, alas! in its result changed
the eternal course of events, turning me from the pleasant new sprung hope I enjoyed, to an
obscure and gloomy desert. But I must give some little explanation before I proceed with the
final cause of our temporary alteration of plan, and refer again to those times when man walked
the earth fearless, before Plague had become Queen of the World.

There resided a family in the neighbourhood of Windsor, of very humble pretensions, but which
had been an object of interest to us on account of one of the persons of whom it was composed.
The family of the Claytons had known better days; but, after a series of reverses, the father
died a bankrupt, and the mother heartbroken, and a confirmed invalid, retired with her five
children to a little cottage between Eton and Salt Hill. The eldest of these children, who
was thirteen years old, seemed at once from the influence of adversity, to acquire the sagacity
and principle belonging to a more mature age. Her mother grew worse and worse in health, but
Lucy attended on her, and was as a tender parent to her younger brothers and sisters, and in
the meantime shewed herself so good-humoured, social, and benevolent, that she was beloved
as well as honoured, in her little neighbourhood.

Lucy was besides extremely pretty; so when she grew to be sixteen, it was to be supposed, notwithstanding
her poverty, that she should have admirers. One of these was the son of a country-curate; he
was a generous, frank-hearted youth, with an ardent love of knowledge, and no mean acquirements.
Though Lucy was untaught, her mother's conversation and manners gave her a taste for refinements
superior to her present situation. She loved the youth even without knowing it, except that
in any difficulty she naturally turned to him for aid, and awoke with a lighter heart every
Sunday, because she knew that she would be met and accompanied by him in her evening walk with
her sisters. She had another admirer, one of the head-waiters at the inn at Salt Hill. He also
was not without pretensions to urbane superiority, such as he learnt from gentlemen's servants
and waiting-maids, who initiating him in all the slang of high life below stairs, rendered
his arrogant temper ten times more intrusive. Lucy did not disclaim him--she was incapable
of that feeling; but she was sorry when she saw him approach, and quietly resisted all his
endeavours to establish an intimacy. The fellow soon discovered that his rival was preferred
to him; and this changed what was at first a chance admiration into a passion, whose main springs
were envy, and a base desire to deprive his competitor of the advantage he enjoyed over himself.

Poor Lucy's sad story was but a common one. Her lover's father died; and he was left destitute.
He accepted the offer of a gentleman to go to India with him, feeling secure that he should
soon acquire an independence, and return to claim the hand of his beloved. He became involved
in the war carried on there, was taken prisoner, and years elapsed before tidings of his existence
were received in his native land. In the meantime disastrous poverty came on Lucy. Her little
cottage, which stood looking from its trellice, covered with woodbine and jessamine, was burnt
down; and the whole of their little property was included in the destruction. Whither betake
them? By what exertion of industry could Lucy procure them another abode? Her mother nearly
bed-rid, could not survive any extreme of famine-struck poverty. At this time her other admirer
stept forward, and renewed his offer of marriage. He had saved money, and was going to set
up a little inn at Datchet. There was nothing alluring to Lucy in this offer, except the home
it secured to her mother; and she felt more sure of this, since she was struck by the apparent
generosity which occasioned the present offer. She accepted it; thus sacrificing herself for
the comfort and welfare of her parent.

It was some years after her marriage that we became acquainted with her. The accident of a
storm caused us to take refuge in the inn, where we witnessed the brutal and quarrelsome behaviour
of her husband, and her patient endurance. Her lot was not a fortunate one. Her first lover
had returned with the hope of making her his own, and met her by accident, for the first time,
as the mistress of his country inn, and the wife of another. He withdrew despairingly to foreign
parts; nothing went well with him; at last he enlisted, and came back again wounded and sick,
and yet Lucy was debarred from nursing him. Her husband's brutal disposition was aggravated
by his yielding to the many temptations held out by his situation, and the consequent disarrangement
of his affairs. Fortunately she had no children; but her heart was bound up in her brothers
and sisters, and these his avarice and ill temper soon drove from the house; they were dispersed
about the country, earning their livelihood with toil and care. He even shewed an inclination
to get rid of her mother--but Lucy was firm here--she had sacrificed herself for her; she lived
for her --she would not part with her--if the mother went, she would also go beg bread for
her, die with her, but never desert her. The presence of Lucy was too necessary in keeping
up the order of the house, and in preventing the whole establishment from going to wreck, for
him to permit her to leave him. He yielded the point; but in all accesses of anger, or in his
drunken fits, he recurred to the old topic, and stung poor Lucy's heart by opprobrious epithets
bestowed on her parent.

A passion however, if it be wholly pure, entire, and reciprocal, brings with it its own solace.
Lucy was truly, and from the depth of heart, devoted to her mother; the sole end she proposed
to herself in life, was the comfort and preservation of this parent. Though she grieved for
the result, yet she did not repent of her marriage, even when her lover returned to bestow
competence on her. Three years had intervened, and how, in their pennyless state, could her
mother have existed during this time? This excellent woman was worthy of her child's devotion.
A perfect confidence and friendship existed between them; besides, she was by no means illiterate;
and Lucy, whose mind had been in some degree cultivated by her former lover, now found in her
the only person who could understand and appreciate her. Thus, though suffering, she was by
no means desolate, and when, during fine summer days, she led her mother into the flowery and
shady lanes near their abode, a gleam of unmixed joy enlightened her countenance; she saw that
her parent was happy, and she knew that this happiness was of her sole creating.

Meanwhile her husband's affairs grew more and more involved; ruin was near at hand, and she
was about to lose the fruit of all her labours, when pestilence came to change the aspect of
the world. Her husband reaped benefit from the universal misery; but, as the disaster encreased,
the spirit of lawlessness seized him; he deserted his home to revel in the luxuries promised
him in London, and found there a grave. Her former lover had been one of the first victims
of the disease. But Lucy continued to live for and in her mother. Her courage only failed when
she dreaded peril for her parent, or feared that death might prevent her from performing those
duties to which she was unalterably devoted.

When we had quitted Windsor for London, as the previous step to our final emigration, we visited
Lucy, and arranged with her the plan of her own and her mother's removal. Lucy was sorry at
the necessity which forced her to quit her native lanes and village, and to drag an infirm
parent from her comforts at home, to the homeless waste of depopulate earth; but she was too
well disciplined by adversity, and of too sweet a temper, to indulge in repinings at what was
inevitable.

Subsequent circumstances, my illness and that of Idris, drove her from our remembrance; and
we called her to mind at last, only to conclude that she made one of the few who came from
Windsor to join the emigrants, and that she was already in Paris. When we arrived at Rochester
therefore, we were surprised to receive, by a man just come from Slough, a letter from this
exemplary sufferer. His account was, that, journeying from his home, and passing through Datchet,
he was surprised to see smoke issue from the chimney of the inn, and supposing that he should
find comrades for his journey assembled there, he knocked and was admitted. There was no one
in the house but Lucy, and her mother; the latter had been deprived of the use of her limbs
by an attack of rheumatism, and so, one by one, all the remaining inhabitants of the country
set forward, leaving them alone. Lucy intreated the man to stay with her; in a week or two
her mother would be better, and they would then set out; but they must perish, if they were
left thus helpless and forlorn. The man said, that his wife and children were already among
the emigrants, and it was therefore, according to his notion, impossible for him to remain.
Lucy, as a last resource, gave him a letter for Idris, to be delivered to her wherever he should
meet us. This commission at least he fulfilled, and Idris received with emotion the following
letter:--

"HONOURED LADY,

"I am sure that you will remember and pity me, and I dare hope that you will assist me; what
other hope have I? Pardon my manner of writing, I am so bewildered. A month ago my dear mother
was deprived of the use of her limbs. She is already better, and in another month would I am
sure be able to travel, in the way you were so kind as to say you would arrange for us. But
now everybody is gone--everybody--as they went away, each said, that perhaps my mother would
be better, before we were quite deserted. But three days ago I went to Samuel Woods, who, on
account of his new-born child, remained to the last; and there being a large family of them,
I thought I could persuade them to wait a little longer for us; but I found the house deserted.
I have not seen a soul since, till this good man came. --What will become of us? My mother
does not know our state; she is so ill, that I have hidden it from her.

"Will you not send some one to us? I am sure we must perish miserably as we are. If I were
to try to move my mother now, she would die on the road; and if, when she gets better, I were
able, I cannot guess how, to find out the roads, and get on so many many miles to the sea,
you would all be in France, and the great ocean would be between us, which is so terrible even
to sailors. What would it be to me, a woman, who never saw it? We should be imprisoned by it
in this country, all, all alone, with no help; better die where we are. I can hardly write--I
cannot stop my tears--it is not for myself; I could put my trust in God; and let the worst
come, I think I could bear it, if I were alone. But my mother, my sick, my dear, dear mother,
who never, since I was born, spoke a harsh word to me, who has been patient in many sufferings;
pity her, dear Lady, she must die a miserable death if you do not pity her. People speak carelessly
of her, because she is old and infirm, as if we must not all, if we are spared, become so;
and then, when the young are old themselves, they will think that they ought to be taken care
of. It is very silly of me to write in this way to you; but, when I hear her trying not to
groan, and see her look smiling on me to comfort me, when I know she is in pain; and when I
think that she does not know the worst, but she soon must; and then she will not complain;
but I shall sit guessing at all that she is dwelling upon, of famine and misery--I feel as
if my heart must break, and I do not know what I say or do; my mother--mother for whom I have
borne much, God preserve you from this fate! Preserve her, Lady, and He will bless you; and
I, poor miserable creature as I am, will thank you and pray for you while I live.

"Your unhappy and dutiful servant,

"Dec. 30th, 2097. LUCY MARTIN."

This letter deeply affected Idris, and she instantly proposed, that we should return to Datchet,
to assist Lucy and her mother. I said that I would without delay set out for that place, but
entreated her to join her brother, and there await my return with the children. But Idris was
in high spirits, and full of hope. She declared that she could not consent even to a temporary
separation from me, but that there was no need of this, the motion of the carriage did her
good, and the distance was too trifling to be considered. We could dispatch messengers to Adrian,
to inform him of our deviation from the original plan. She spoke with vivacity, and drew a
picture after her own dear heart, of the pleasure we should bestow upon Lucy, and declared,
if I went, she must accompany me, and that she should very much dislike to entrust the charge
of rescuing them to others, who might fulfil it with coldness or inhumanity. Lucy's life had
been one act of devotion and virtue; let her now reap the small reward of finding her excellence
appreciated, and her necessity assisted, by those whom she respected and honoured.

These, and many other arguments, were urged with gentle pertinacity, and the ardour of a wish
to do all the good in her power, by her whose simple expression of a desire and slightest request
had ever been a law with me. I, of course, consented, the moment that I saw that she had set
her heart upon this step. We sent half our attendant troop on to Adrian; and with the other
half our carriage took a retrograde course back to Windsor.

I wonder now how I could be so blind and senseless, as thus to risk the safety of Idris; for,
if I had eyes, surely I could see the sure, though deceitful, advance of death in her burning
cheek and encreasing weakness. But she said she was better; and I believed her. Extinction
could not be near a being, whose vivacity and intelligence hourly encreased, and whose frame
was endowed with an intense, and I fondly thought, a strong and permanent spirit of life. Who,
after a great disaster, has not looked back with wonder at his inconceivable obtuseness of
understanding, that could not perceive the many minute threads with which fate weaves the inextricable
net of our destinies, until he is inmeshed completely in it?

The cross roads which we now entered upon, were even in a worse state than the long neglected
high-ways; and the inconvenience seemed to menace the perishing frame of Idris with destruction.
Passing through Dartford, we arrived at Hampton on the second day. Even in this short interval
my beloved companion grew sensibly worse in health, though her spirits were still light, and
she cheered my growing anxiety with gay sallies; sometimes the thought pierced my brain--Is
she dying?--as I saw her fair fleshless hand rest on mine, or observed the feebleness with
which she performed the accustomed acts of life. I drove away the idea, as if it had been suggested
by insanity; but it occurred again and again, only to be dispelled by the continued liveliness
of her manner.

About mid-day, after quitting Hampton, our carriage broke down: the shock caused Idris to faint,
but on her reviving no other ill consequence ensued; our party of attendants had as usual gone
on before us, and our coachman went in search of another vehicle, our former one being rendered
by this accident unfit for service. The only place near us was a poor village, in which he
found a kind of caravan, able to hold four people, but it was clumsy and ill hung; besides
this he found a very excellent cabriolet: our plan was soon arranged; I would drive Idris in
the latter; while the children were conveyed by the servant in the former. But these arrangements
cost time; we had agreed to proceed that night to Windsor, and thither our purveyors had gone:
we should find considerable difficulty in getting accommodation, before we reached this place;
after all, the distance was only ten miles; my horse was a good one; I would go forward at
a good pace with Idris, leaving the children to follow at a rate more consonant to the uses
of their cumberous machine.

Evening closed in quickly, far more quickly than I was prepared to expect. At the going down
of the sun it began to snow heavily. I attempted in vain to defend my beloved companion from
the storm; the wind drove the snow in our faces; and it lay so high on the ground, that we
made but small way; while the night was so dark, that but for the white covering on the ground
we should not have been able to see a yard before us. We had left our accompanying caravan
far behind us; and now I perceived that the storm had made me unconsciously deviate from my
intended route. I had gone some miles out of my way. My knowledge of the country enabled me
to regain the right road; but, instead of going, as at first agreed upon, by a cross road through
Stanwell to Datchet, I was obliged to take the way of Egham and Bishopgate. It was certain
therefore that I should not be rejoined by the other vehicle, that I should not meet a single
fellow-creature till we arrived at Windsor.

The back of our carriage was drawn up, and I hung a pelisse before it, thus to curtain the
beloved sufferer from the pelting sleet. She leaned on my shoulder, growing every moment more
languid and feeble; at first she replied to my words of cheer with affectionate thanks; but
by degrees she sunk into silence; her head lay heavily upon me; I only knew that she lived
by her irregular breathing and frequent sighs. For a moment I resolved to stop, and, opposing
the back of the cabriolet to the force of the tempest, to expect morning as well as I might.
But the wind was bleak and piercing, while the occasional shudderings of my poor Idris, and
the intense cold I felt myself, demonstrated that this would be a dangerous experiment. At
length methought she slept--fatal sleep, induced by frost: at this moment I saw the heavy outline
of a cottage traced on the dark horizon close to us: "Dearest love," I said, "support yourself
but one moment, and we shall have shelter; let us stop here, that I may open the door of this
blessed dwelling."

As I spoke, my heart was transported, and my senses swam with excessive delight and thankfulness;
I placed the head of Idris against the carriage, and, leaping out, scrambled through the snow
to the cottage, whose door was open. I had apparatus about me for procuring light, and that
shewed me a comfortable room, with a pile of wood in one corner, and no appearance of disorder,
except that, the door having been left partly open, the snow, drifting in, had blocked up the
threshold. I returned to the carriage, and the sudden change from light to darkness at first
blinded me. When I recovered my sight--eternal God of this lawless world! O supreme Death!
I will not disturb thy silent reign, or mar my tale with fruitless exclamations of horror--I
saw Idris, who had fallen from the seat to the bottom of the carriage; her head, its long hair
pendent, with one arm, hung over the side.--Struck by a spasm of horror, I lifted her up; her
heart was pulseless, her faded lips unfanned by the slightest breath.

I carried her into the cottage; I placed her on the bed. Lighting a fire, I chafed her stiffening
limbs; for two long hours I sought to restore departed life; and, when hope was as dead as
my beloved, I closed with trembling hands her glazed eyes. I did not doubt what I should now
do. In the confusion attendant on my illness, the task of interring our darling Alfred had
devolved on his grandmother, the Ex-Queen, and she, true to her ruling passion, had caused
him to be carried to Windsor, and buried in the family vault, in St. George's Chapel. I must
proceed to Windsor, to calm the anxiety of Clara, who would wait anxiously for us--yet I would
fain spare her the heart-breaking spectacle of Idris, brought in by me lifeless from the journey.
So first I would place my beloved beside her child in the vault, and then seek the poor children
who would be expecting me.

I lighted the lamps of my carriage; I wrapt her in furs, and placed her along the seat; then
taking the reins, made the horses go forward. We proceeded through the snow, which lay in masses
impeding the way, while the descending flakes, driving against me with redoubled fury, blinded
me. The pain occasioned by the angry elements, and the cold iron of the shafts of frost which
buffetted me, and entered my aching flesh, were a relief to me; blunting my mental suffering.
The horses staggered on, and the reins hung loosely in my hands. I often thought I would lay
my head close to the sweet, cold face of my lost angel, and thus resign myself to conquering
torpor. Yet I must not leave her a prey to the fowls of the air; but, in pursuance of my determination
place her in the tomb of her forefathers, where a merciful God might permit me to rest also.

The road we passed through Egham was familiar to me; but the wind and snow caused the horses
to drag their load slowly and heavily. Suddenly the wind veered from south-west to west, and
then again to north-west. As Sampson with tug and strain stirred from their bases the columns
that supported the Philistine temple, so did the gale shake the dense vapours propped on the
horizon, while the massy dome of clouds fell to the south, disclosing through the scattered
web the clear empyrean, and the little stars, which were set at an immeasurable distance in
the crystalline fields, showered their small rays on the glittering snow. Even the horses were
cheered, and moved on with renovated strength. I looked with reverence on a structure, ancient
almost as the rock on which it stood, abode of kings, theme of admiration for the wise. With
greater reverence and, tearful affection I beheld it as the asylum of the long lease of love
I had enjoyed there with the perishable, unmatchable treasure of dust, which now lay cold beside
me. Now indeed, I could have yielded to all the softness of my nature, and wept; and, womanlike,
have uttered bitter plaints; while the familiar trees, the herds of living deer, the sward
oft prest by her fairy-feet, one by one with sad association presented themselves. The white
gate at the end of the Long Walk was wide open, and I rode up the empty town through the first
gate of the feudal tower; and now St. George's Chapel, with its blackened fretted sides, was
right before me. I halted at its door, which was open; I entered, and placed my lighted lamp
on the altar; then I returned, and with tender caution I bore Idris up the aisle into the chancel,
and laid her softly down on the carpet which covered the step leading to the communion table.
The banners of the knights of the garter, and their half drawn swords, were hung in vain emblazonry
above the stalls. The banner of her family hung there, still surmounted by its regal crown.
Farewell to the glory and heraldry of England!--I turned from such vanity with a slight feeling
of wonder, at how mankind could have ever been interested in such things. I bent over the lifeless
corpse of my beloved; and, while looking on her uncovered face, the features already contracted
by the rigidity of death, I felt as if all the visible universe had grown as soulless, inane,
and comfortless as the clay-cold image beneath me. I felt for a moment the intolerable sense
of struggle with, and detestation for, the laws which govern the world; till the calm still
visible on the face of my dead love recalled me to a more soothing tone of mind, and I proceeded
to fulfil the last office that could now be paid her. For her I could not lament, so much I
envied her enjoyment of "the sad immunities of the grave."

The vault had been lately opened to place our Alfred therein. The ceremony customary in these
latter days had been cursorily performed, and the pavement of the chapel, which was its entrance,
having been removed, had not been replaced. I descended the steps, and walked through the long
passage to the large vault which contained the kindred dust of my Idris. I distinguished the
small coffin of my babe. With hasty, trembling hands I constructed a bier beside it, spreading
it with the furs and Indian shawls, which had wrapt Idris in her journey thither. I lighted
the glimmering lamp, which flickered in this damp abode of the dead; then I bore my lost one
to her last bed, decently composing her limbs, and covering them with a mantle, veiling all
except her face, which remained lovely and placid. She appeared to rest like one over-wearied,
her beauteous eyes steeped in sweet slumber. Yet, so it was not--she was dead! How intensely
I then longed to lie down beside her, to gaze till death should gather me to the same repose.

But death does not come at the bidding of the miserable. I had lately recovered from mortal
illness, and my blood had never flowed with such an even current, nor had my limbs ever been
so instinct with quick life, as now. I felt that my death must be voluntary. Yet what more
natural than famine, as I watched in this chamber of mortality, placed in a world of the dead,
beside the lost hope of my life? Meanwhile as I looked on her, the features, which bore a sisterly
resemblance to Adrian, brought my thoughts back again to the living, to this dear friend, to
Clara, and to Evelyn, who were probably now in Windsor, waiting anxiously for our arrival.

Methought I heard a noise, a step in the far chapel, which was re-echoed by its vaulted roof,
and borne to me through the hollow passages. Had Clara seen my carriage pass up the town, and
did she seek me here? I must save her at least from the horrible scene the vault presented.
I sprung up the steps, and then saw a female figure, bent with age, and clad in long mourning
robes, advance through the dusky chapel, supported by a slender cane, yet tottering even with
this support. She heard me, and looked up; the lamp I held illuminated my figure, and the moon-beams,
struggling through the painted glass, fell upon her face, wrinkled and gaunt, yet with a piercing
eye and commanding brow--I recognized the Countess of Windsor. With a hollow voice she asked,
"Where is the princess?"

I pointed to the torn up pavement: she walked to the spot, and looked down into the palpable
darkness; for the vault was too distant for the rays of the small lamp I had left there to
be discernible.

"Your light," she said. I gave it her; and she regarded the now visible, but precipitous steps,
as if calculating her capacity to descend. Instinctively I made a silent offer of my assistance.
She motioned me away with a look of scorn, saying in an harsh voice, as she pointed downwards,
"There at least I may have her undisturbed."

She walked deliberately down, while I, overcome, miserable beyond words, or tears, or groans,
threw myself on the pavement near--the stiffening form of Idris was before me, the death-struck
countenance hushed in eternal repose beneath. That was to me the end of all! The day before,
I had figured to my self various adventures, and communion with my friends in after time--now
I had leapt the interval, and reached the utmost edge and bourne of life. Thus wrapt in gloom,
enclosed, walled up, vaulted over by the omnipotent present, I was startled by the sound of
feet on the steps of the tomb, and I remembered her whom I had utterly forgotten, my angry
visitant; her tall form slowly rose upwards from the vault, a living statue, instinct with
hate, and human, passionate strife: she seemed to me as having reached the pavement of the
aisle; she stood motionless, seeking with her eyes alone, some desired object--till, perceiving
me close to her, she placed her wrinkled hand on my arm, exclaiming with tremulous accents,
"Lionel Verney, my son!" This name, applied at such a moment by my angel's mother, instilled
into me more respect than I had ever before felt for this disdainful lady. I bowed my head,
and kissed her shrivelled hand, and, remarking that she trembled violently, supported her to
the end of the chancel, where she sat on the steps that led to the regal stall. She suffered
herself to be led, and still holding my hand, she leaned her head back against the stall, while
the moon beams, tinged with various colours by the painted glass, fell on her glistening eyes;
aware of her weakness, again calling to mind her long cherished dignity, she dashed the tears
away; yet they fell fast, as she said, for excuse, "She is so beautiful and placid, even in
death. No harsh feeling ever clouded her serene brow; how did I treat her? wounding her gentle
heart with savage coldness; I had no compassion on her in past years, does she forgive me now?
Little, little does it boot to talk of repentance and forgiveness to the dead, had I during
her life once consulted her gentle wishes, and curbed my rugged nature to do her pleasure,
I should not feel thus."

Idris and her mother were unlike in person. The dark hair, deep-set black eyes, and prominent
features of the Ex-Queen were in entire contrast to the golden tresses, the full blue orbs,
and the soft lines and contour of her daughter's countenance. Yet, in latter days, illness
had taken from my poor girl the full outline of her face, and reduced it to the inflexible
shape of the bone beneath. In the form of her brow, in her oval chin, there was to be found
a resemblance to her mother; nay in some moods, their gestures were not unlike; nor, having
lived so long together, was this wonderful.

There is a magic power in resemblance. When one we love dies, we hope to see them in another
state, and half expect that the agency of mind will inform its new garb in imitation of its
decayed earthly vesture. But these are ideas of the mind only. We know that the instrument
is shivered, the sensible image lies in miserable fragments, dissolved to dusty nothingness;
a look, a gesture, or a fashioning of the limbs similar to the dead in a living person, touches
a thrilling chord, whose sacred harmony is felt in the heart's dearest recess. Strangely moved,
prostrate before this spectral image, and enslaved by the force of blood manifested in likeness
of look and movement, I remained trembling in the presence of the harsh, proud, and till now
unloved mother of Idris.

Poor, mistaken woman! in her tenderest mood before, she had cherished the idea, that a word,
a look of reconciliation from her, would be received with joy, and repay long years of severity.
Now that the time was gone for the exercise of such power, she fell at once upon the thorny
truth of things, and felt that neither smile nor caress could penetrate to the unconscious
state, or influence the happiness of her who lay in the vault beneath. This conviction, together
with the remembrance of soft replies to bitter speeches, of gentle looks repaying angry glances;
the perception of the falsehood, paltryness and futility of her cherished dreams of birth and
power; the overpowering knowledge, that love and life were the true emperors of our mortal
state; all, as a tide, rose, and filled her soul with stormy and bewildering confusion. It
fell to my lot, to come as the influential power, to allay the fierce tossing of these tumultuous
waves. I spoke to her; I led her to reflect how happy Idris had really been, and how her virtues
and numerous excellencies had found scope and estimation in her past career. I praised her,
the idol of my heart's dear worship, the admired type of feminine perfection. With ardent and
overflowing eloquence, I relieved my heart from its burthen, and awoke to the sense of a new
pleasure in life, as I poured forth the funeral eulogy. Then I referred to Adrian, her loved
brother, and to her surviving child. I declared, which I had before almost forgotten, what
my duties were with regard to these valued portions of herself, and bade the melancholy repentant
mother reflect, how she could best expiate unkindness towards the dead, by redoubled love of
the survivors. Consoling her, my own sorrows were assuaged; my sincerity won her entire conviction.

She turned to me. The hard, inflexible, persecuting woman, turned with a mild expression of
face, and said, "If our beloved angel sees us now, it will delight her to find that I do you
even tardy justice. You were worthy of her; and from my heart I am glad that you won her away
from me. Pardon, my son, the many wrongs I have done you; forget my bitter words and unkind
treatment--take me, and govern me as you will."

I seized this docile moment to propose our departure from the church. "First," she said, "let
us replace the pavement above the vault."

We drew near to it; "Shall we look on her again?" I asked.

"I cannot," she replied, "and, I pray you, neither do you. We need not torture ourselves by
gazing on the soulless body, while her living spirit is buried quick in our hearts, and her
surpassing loveliness is so deeply carved there, that sleeping or waking she must ever be present
to us."

For a few moments, we bent in solemn silence over the open vault. I consecrated my future life,
to the embalming of her dear memory; I vowed to serve her brother and her child till death.
The convulsive sob of my companion made me break off my internal orisons. I next dragged the
stones over the entrance of the tomb, and closed the gulph that contained the life of my life.
Then, supporting my decrepid fellow-mourner, we slowly left the chapel. I felt, as I stepped
into the open air, as if I had quitted an happy nest of repose, for a dreary wilderness, a
tortuous path, a bitter, joyless, hopeless pilgrimage.

CHAPTER IV.

OUR escort had been directed to prepare our abode for the night at the inn, opposite the ascent
to the Castle. We could not again visit the halls and familiar chambers of our home, on a mere
visit. We had already left for ever the glades of Windsor, and all of coppice, flowery hedgerow,
and murmuring stream, which gave shape and intensity to the love of our country, and the almost
superstitious attachment with which we regarded native England. It had been our intention to
have called at Lucy's dwelling in Datchet, and to have re-assured her with promises of aid
and protection before we repaired to our quarters for the night. Now, as the Countess of Windsor
and I turned down the steep hill that led from the Castle, we saw the children, who had just
stopped in their caravan, at the inn-door. They had passed through Datchet without halting.
I dreaded to meet them, and to be the bearer of my tragic story, so while they were still occupied
in the hurry of arrival, I suddenly left them, and through the snow and clear moon-light air,
hastened along the well known road to Datchet.

Well known indeed it was. Each cottage stood on its accustomed site, each tree wore its familiar
appearance. Habit had graven uneraseably on my memory, every turn and change of object on the
road. At a short distance beyond the Little Park, was an elm half blown down by a storm, some
ten years ago; and still, with leafless snow-laden branches, it stretched across the pathway,
which wound through a meadow, beside a shallow brook, whose brawling was silenced by frost--that
stile, that white gate, that hollow oak tree, which doubtless once belonged to the forest,
and which now shewed in the moonlight its gaping rent; to whose fanciful appearance, tricked
out by the dusk into a resemblance of the human form, the children had given the name of Falstaff;--all
these objects were as well known to me as the cold hearth of my deserted home, and every moss-grown
wall and plot of orchard ground, alike as twin lambs are to each other in a stranger's eye,
yet to my accustomed gaze bore differences, distinction, and a name. England remained, though
England was dead--it was the ghost of merry England that I beheld, under those greenwood shade
passing generations had sported in security and ease. To this painful recognition of familiar
places, was added a feeling experienced by all, understood by none--a feeling as if in some
state, less visionary than a dream, in some past real existence, I had seen all I saw, with
precisely the same feelings as I now beheld them--as if all my sensations were a duplex mirror
of a former revelation. To get rid of this oppressive sense I strove to imagine change in this
tranquil spot--this augmented my mood, by causing me to bestow more attention on the objects
which occasioned me pain.

I reached Datchet and Lucy's humble abode--once noisy with Saturday night revellers, or trim
and neat on Sunday morning it had borne testimony to the labours and orderly habits of the
housewife. The snow lay high about the door, as if it had remained unclosed for many days.

"What scene of death hath Roscius now to act?" I muttered to myself as I looked at the dark
casements. At first I thought I saw a light in one of them, but it proved to be merely the
refraction of the moon-beams, while the only sound was the crackling branches as the breeze
whirred the snow flakes from them--the moon sailed high and unclouded in the interminable ether,
while the shadow of the cottage lay black on the garden behind. I entered this by the open
wicket, and anxiously examined each window. At length I detected a ray of light struggling
through a closed shutter in one of the upper rooms--it was a novel feeling, alas! to look at
any house and say there dwells its usual inmate--the door of the house was merely on the latch:
so I entered and ascended the moon-lit staircase. The door of the inhabited room was ajar:
looking in, I saw Lucy sitting as at work at the table on which the light stood; the implements
of needlework were about her, but her hand had fallen on her lap, and her eyes, fixed on the
ground, shewed by their vacancy that her thoughts wandered. Traces of care and watching had
diminished her former attractions--but her simple dress and cap, her desponding attitude, and
the single candle that cast its light upon her, gave for a moment a picturesque grouping to
the whole. A fearful reality recalled me from the thought--a figure lay stretched on the bed
covered by a sheet--her mother was dead, and Lucy, apart from all the world, deserted and alone,
watched beside the corpse during the weary night. I entered the room, and my unexpected appearance
at first drew a scream from the lone survivor of a dead nation; but she recognised me, and
recovered herself, with the quick exercise of self-control habitual to her. "Did you not expect
me?" I asked, in that low voice which the presence of the dead makes us as it were instinctively
assume.

"You are very good," replied she, "to have come yourself; I can never thank you sufficiently;
but it is too late."

"Too late," cried I, "what do you mean? It is not too late to take you from this deserted place,
and conduct you to---"

My own loss, which I had forgotten as I spoke, now made me turn away, while choking grief impeded
my speech. I threw open the window, and looked on the cold, waning, ghastly, misshaped circle
on high, and the chill white earth beneath--did the spirit of sweet Idris sail along the moon-frozen
crystal air?--No, no, a more genial atmosphere, a lovelier habitation was surely hers!

I indulged in this meditation for a moment, and then again addressed the mourner, who stood
leaning against the bed with that expression of resigned despair, of complete misery, and a
patient sufferance of it, which is far more touching than any of the insane ravings or wild
gesticulation of untamed sorrow. I desired to draw her from this spot; but she opposed my wish.
That class of persons whose imagination and sensibility have never been taken out of the narrow
circle immediately in view, if they possess these qualities to any extent, are apt to pour
their influence into the very realities which appear to destroy them, and to cling to these
with double tenacity from not being able to comprehend any thing beyond. Thus Lucy, in desert
England, in a dead world, wished to fulfil the usual ceremonies of the dead, such as were customary
to the English country people, when death was a rare visitant, and gave us time to receive
his dreaded usurpation with pomp and circumstance--going forth in procession to deliver the
keys of the tomb into his conquering hand. She had already, alone as she was, accomplished
some of these, and the work on which I found her employed, was her mother's shroud. My heart
sickened at such detail of woe, which a female can endure, but which is more painful to the
masculine spirit than deadliest struggle, or throes of unutterable but transient agony.

This must not be, I told her; and then, as further inducement, I communicated to her my recent
loss, and gave her the idea that she must come with me to take charge of the orphan children,
whom the death of Idris had deprived of a mother's care. Lucy never resisted the call of a
duty, so she yielded, and closing the casements and doors with care, she accompanied me back
to Windsor. As we went she communicated to me the occasion of her mother's death. Either by
some mischance she had got sight of Lucy's letter to Idris, or she had overheard her conversation
with the countryman who bore it; however it might be, she obtained a knowledge of the appalling
situation of herself and her daughter, her aged frame could not sustain the anxiety and horror
this discovery instilled--she concealed her knowledge from Lucy, but brooded over it through
sleepless nights, till fever and delirium, swift forerunners of death, disclosed the secret.
Her life, which had long been hovering on its extinction, now yielded at once to the united
effects of misery and sickness, and that same morning she had died.

After the tumultuous emotions of the day, I was glad to find on my arrival at the inn that
my companions had retired to rest. I gave Lucy in charge to the Countess's attendant, and then
sought repose from my various struggles and impatient regrets. For a few moments the events
of the day floated in disastrous pageant through my brain, till sleep bathed it in forgetfulness;
when morning dawned and I awoke, it seemed as if my slumber had endured for years.

My companions had not shared my oblivion. Clara's swollen eyes shewed that she has passed the
night in weeping. The Countess looked haggard and wan. Her firm spirit had not found relief
in tears, and she suffered the more from all the painful retrospect and agonizing regret that
now occupied her. We departed from Windsor, as soon as the burial rites had been performed
for Lucy's mother, and, urged on by an impatient desire to change the scene, went forward towards
Dover with speed, our escort having gone before to provide horses; finding them either in the
warm stables they instinctively sought during the cold weather, or standing shivering in the
bleak fields ready to surrender their liberty in exchange for offered corn.

During our ride the Countess recounted to me the extraordinary circumstances which had brought
her so strangely to my side in the chancel of St. George's chapel. When last she had taken
leave of Idris, as she looked anxiously on her faded person and pallid countenance, she had
suddenly been visited by a conviction that she saw her for the last time. It was hard to part
with her while under the dominion of this sentiment, and for the last time she endeavoured
to persuade her daughter to commit herself to her nursing, permitting me to join Adrian. Idris
mildly refused, and thus they separated. The idea that they should never again meet grew on
the Countess's mind, and haunted her perpetually; a thousand times she had resolved to turn
back and join us, and was again and again restrained by the pride and anger of which she was
the slave. Proud of heart as she was, she bathed her pillow with nightly tears, and through
the day was subdued by nervous agitation and expectation of the dreaded event, which she was
wholly incapable of curbing. She confessed that at this period her hatred of me knew no bounds,
since she considered me as the sole obstacle to the fulfilment of her dearest wish, that of
attending upon her daughter in her last moments. She desired to express her fears to her son,
and to seek consolation from his sympathy with, or courage from his rejection of, her auguries.

On the first day of her arrival at Dover she walked with him on the sea beach, and with the
timidity characteristic of passionate and exaggerated feeling was by degrees bringing the conversation
to the desired point, when she could communicate her fears to him, when the messenger who bore
my letter announcing our temporary return to Windsor, came riding down to them. He gave some
oral account of how he had left us, and added, that notwithstanding the cheerfulness and good
courage of Lady Idris, he was afraid that she would hardly reach Windsor alive. "True," said
the Countess, "your fears are just, she is about to expire!"

As she spoke, her eyes were fixed on a tomblike hollow of the cliff, and she saw, she averred
the same to me with solemnity, Idris pacing slowly towards this cave. She was turned from her,
her head was bent down, her white dress was such as she was accustomed to wear, except that
a thin crape-like veil covered her golden tresses, and concealed her as a dim transparent mist.
She looked dejected, as docilely yielding to a commanding power; she submissively entered,
and was lost in the dark recess.

"Were I subject to visionary moods," said the venerable lady, as she continued her narrative,
"I might doubt my eyes, and condemn my credulity; but reality is the world I live in, and what
I saw I doubt not had existence beyond myself. From that moment I could not rest; it was worth
my existence to see her once again before she died; I knew that I should not accomplish this,
yet I must endeavour. I immediately departed for Windsor; and, though I was assured that we
travelled speedily, it seemed to me that our progress was snail-like, and that delays were
created solely for my annoyance. Still I accused you, and heaped on your head the fiery ashes
of my burning impatience. It was no disappointment, though an agonizing pang, when you pointed
to her last abode; and words would ill express the abhorrence I that moment felt towards you,
the triumphant impediment to my dearest wishes. I saw her, and anger, and hate, and injustice
died at her bier, giving place at their departure to a remorse (Great God, that I should feel
it!) which must last while memory and feeling endure."

To medicine such remorse, to prevent awakening love and new-born mildness from producing the
same bitter fruit that hate and harshness had done, I devoted all my endeavours to soothe the
venerable penitent. Our party was a melancholy one; each was possessed by regret for what was
remediless; for the absence of his mother shadowed even the infant gaiety of Evelyn. Added
to this was the prospect of the uncertain future. Before the final accomplishment of any great
voluntary change the mind vacillates, now soothing itself by fervent expectation, now recoiling
from obstacles which seem never to have presented themselves before with so frightful an aspect.
An involuntary tremor ran through me when I thought that in another day we might have crossed
the watery barrier, and have set forward on that hopeless, interminable, sad wandering, which
but a short time before I regarded as the only relief to sorrow that our situation afforded.

Our approach to Dover was announced by the loud roarings of the wintry sea. They were borne
miles inland by the sound-laden blast, and by their unaccustomed uproar, imparted a feeling
of insecurity and peril to our stable abode. At first we hardly permitted ourselves to think
that any unusual eruption of nature caused this tremendous war of air and water, but rather
fancied that we merely listened to what we had heard a thousand times before, when we had watched
the flocks of fleece-crowned waves, driven by the winds, come to lament and die on the barren
sands and pointed rocks. But we found upon advancing farther, that Dover was overflowed-- many
of the houses were overthrown by the surges which filled the streets, and with hideous brawlings
sometimes retreated leaving the pavement of the town bare, till again hurried forward by the
influx of ocean, they returned with thunder-sound to their usurped station.

Hardly less disturbed than the tempestuous world of waters was the assembly of human beings,
that from the cliff fearfully watched its ravings. On the morning of the arrival of the emigrants
under the conduct of Adrian, the sea had been serene and glassy, the slight ripples refracted
the sunbeams, which shed their radiance through the clear blue frosty air. This placid appearance
of nature was hailed as a good augury for the voyage, and the chief immediately repaired to
the harbour to examine two steamboats which were moored there. On the following midnight, when
all were at rest, a frightful storm of wind and clattering rain and hail first disturbed them,
and the voice of one shrieking in the streets, that the sleepers must awake or they would be
drowned; and when they rushed out, half clothed, to discover the meaning of this alarm, they
found that the tide, rising above every mark, was rushing into the town. They ascended the
cliff, but the darkness permitted only the white crest of waves to be seen, while the roaring
wind mingled its howlings in dire accord with the wild surges. The awful hour of night, the
utter inexperience of many who had never seen the sea before, the wailing of women and cries
of children added to the horror of the tumult. All the following day the same scene continued.
When the tide ebbed, the town was left dry; but on its flow, it rose even higher than on the
preceding night. The vast ships that lay rotting in the roads were whirled from their anchorage,
and driven and jammed against the cliff, the vessels in the harbour were flung on land like
sea-weed, and there battered to pieces by the breakers. The waves dashed against the cliff,
which if in any place it had been before loosened, now gave way, and the affrighted crowd saw
vast fragments of the near earth fall with crash and roar into the deep. This sight operated
differently on different persons. The greater part thought it a judgment of God, to prevent
or punish our emigration from our native land. Many were doubly eager to quit a nook of ground
now become their prison, which appeared unable to resist the inroads of ocean's giant waves.

When we arrived at Dover, after a fatiguing day's journey, we all required rest and sleep;
but the scene acting around us soon drove away such ideas. We were drawn, along with the greater
part of our companions, to the edge of the cliff, there to listen to and make a thousand conjectures.
A fog narrowed our horizon to about a quarter of a mile, and the misty veil, cold and dense,
enveloped sky and sea in equal obscurity. What added to our inquietude was the circumstance
that two-thirds of our original number were now waiting for us in Paris, and clinging, as we
now did most painfully, to any addition to our melancholy remnant, this division, with the
tameless impassable ocean between, struck us with affright. At length, after loitering for
several hours on the cliff, we retired to Dover Castle, whose roof sheltered all who breathed
the English air, and sought the sleep necessary to restore strength and courage to our worn
frames and languid spirits.

Early in the morning Adrian brought me the welcome intelligence that the wind had changed:
it had been south-west; it was now north-east. The sky was stripped bare of clouds by the increasing
gale, while the tide at its ebb seceded entirely from the town. The change of wind rather increased
the fury of the sea, but it altered its late dusky hue to a bright green; and in spite of its
unmitigated clamour, its more cheerful appearance instilled hope and pleasure. All day we watched
the ranging of the mountainous waves, and towards sunset a desire to decypher the promise for
the morrow at its setting, made us all gather with one accord on the edge of the cliff. When
the mighty luminary approached within a few degrees of the tempest-tossed horizon, suddenly,
a wonder! three other suns, alike burning and brilliant, rushed from various quarters of the
heavens towards the great orb; they whirled round it. The glare of light was intense to our
dazzled eyes; the sun itself seemed to join in the dance, while the sea burned like a furnace,
like all Vesuvius a-light, with flowing lava beneath. The horses broke loose from their stalls
in terror--a herd of cattle, panic struck, raced down to the brink of the cliff, and blinded
by light, plunged down with frightful yells in the waves below. The time occupied by the apparition
of these meteors was comparatively short; suddenly the three mock suns united in one, and plunged
into the sea. A few seconds afterwards, a deafening watery sound came up with awful peal from
the spot where they had disappeared.

Meanwhile the sun, disencumbered from his strange satellites, paced with its accustomed majesty
towards its western home. When--we dared not trust our eyes late dazzled, but it seemed that--the
sea rose to meet it--it mounted higher and higher, till the fiery globe was obscured, and the
wall of water still ascended the horizon; it appeared as if suddenly the motion of earth was
revealed to us--as if no longer we were ruled by ancient laws, but were turned adrift in an
unknown region of space. Many cried aloud, that these were no meteors, but globes of burning
matter, which had set fire to the earth, and caused the vast cauldron at our feet to bubble
up with its measureless waves; the day of judgment was come they averred, and a few moments
would transport us before the awful countenance of the omnipotent judge; while those less given
to visionary terrors, declared that two conflicting gales had occasioned the last phaenomenon.
In support of this opinion they pointed out the fact that the east wind died away, while the
rushing of the coming west mingled its wild howl with the roar of the advancing waters. Would
the cliff resist this new battery? Was not the giant wave far higher than the precipice? Would
not our little island be deluged by its approach? The crowd of spectators fled. They were dispersed
over the fields, stopping now and then, and looking back in terror. A sublime sense of awe
calmed the swift pulsations of my heart--I awaited the approach of the destruction menaced,
with that solemn resignation which an unavoidable necessity instils. The ocean every moment
assumed a more terrific aspect, while the twilight was dimmed by the rack which the west wind
spread over the sky. By slow degrees however, as the wave advanced, it took a more mild appearance;
some under current of air, or obstruction in the bed of the waters, checked its progress, and
it sank gradually; while the surface of the sea became uniformly higher as it dissolved into
it. This change took from us the fear of an immediate catastrophe, although we were still anxious
as to the final result. We continued during the whole night to watch the fury of the sea and
the pace of the driving clouds, through whose openings the rare stars rushed impetuously; the
thunder of conflicting elements deprived us of all power to sleep.

This endured ceaselessly for three days and nights. The stoutest hearts quailed before the
savage enmity of nature; provisions began to fail us, though every day foraging parties were
dispersed to the nearer towns. In vain we schooled ourselves into the belief, that there was
nothing out of the common order of nature in the strife we witnessed; our disasterous and overwhelming
destiny turned the best of us to cowards. Death had hunted us through the course of many months,
even to the narrow strip of time on which we now stood; narrow indeed, and buffeted by storms,
was our footway overhanging the great sea of calamity--

  As an unsheltered northern shore
  Is shaken by the wintry wave--
  And frequent storms for evermore,
  (While from the west the loud winds rave,
  Or from the east, or mountains hoar)
  The struck and tott'ring sand-bank lave.[1]

It required more than human energy to bear up against the menaces of destruction that every
where surrounded us.

After the lapse of three days, the gale died away, the sea-gull sailed upon the calm bosom
of the windless atmosphere, and the last yellow leaf on the topmost branch of the oak hung
without motion. The sea no longer broke with fury; but a swell setting in steadily for shore,
with long sweep and sullen burst replaced the roar of the breakers. Yet we derived hope from
the change, and we did not doubt that after the interval of a few days the sea would resume
its tranquillity. The sunset of the fourth day favoured this idea; it was clear and golden.
As we gazed on the purple sea, radiant beneath, we were attracted by a novel spectacle; a dark
speck--as it neared, visibly a boat--rode on the top of the waves, every now and then lost
in the steep vallies between. We marked its course with eager questionings; and, when we saw
that it evidently made for shore, we descended to the only practicable landing place, and hoisted
a signal to direct them. By the help of glasses we distinguished her crew; it consisted of
nine men, Englishmen, belonging in truth to the two divisions of our people, who had preceded
us, and had been for several weeks at Paris. As countryman was wont to meet countryman in distant
lands, did we greet our visitors on their landing, with outstretched hands and gladsome welcome.
They were slow to reciprocate our gratulations. They looked angry and resentful; not less than
the chafed sea which they had traversed with imminent peril, though apparently more displeased
with each other than with us. It was strange to see these human beings, who appeared to be
given forth by the earth like rare and inestimable plants, full of towering passion, and the
spirit of angry contest. Their first demand was to be conducted to the Lord Protector of England,
so they called Adrian, though he had long discarded the empty title, as a bitter mockery of
the shadow to which the Protectorship was now reduced. They were speedily led to Dover Castle,
from whose keep Adrian had watched the movements of the boat. He received them with the interest
and wonder so strange a visitation created. In the confusion occasioned by their angry demands
for precedence, it was long before we could discover the secret meaning of this strange scene.
By degrees, from the furious declamations of one, the fierce interruptions of another, and
the bitter scoffs of a third, we found that they were deputies from our colony at Paris, from
three parties there formed, who, each with angry rivalry, tried to attain a superiority over
the other two. These deputies had been dispatched by them to Adrian, who had been selected
arbiter; and they had journied from Paris to Calais, through the vacant towns and desolate
country, indulging the while violent hatred against each other; and now they pleaded their
several causes with unmitigated party-spirit.

By examining the deputies apart, and after much investigation, we learnt the true state of
things at Paris. Since parliament had elected him Ryland's deputy, all the surviving English
had submitted to Adrian. He was our captain to lead us from our native soil to unknown lands,
our lawgiver and our preserver. On the first arrangement of our scheme of emigration, no continued
separation of our members was contemplated, and the command of the whole body in gradual ascent
of power had its apex in the Earl of Windsor. But unforeseen circumstances changed our plans
for us, and occasioned the greater part of our numbers to be divided for the space of nearly
two months, from the supreme chief. They had gone over in two distinct bodies; and on their
arrival at Paris dissension arose between them.

They had found Paris a desert. When first the plague had appeared, the return of travellers
and merchants, and communications by letter, informed us regularly of the ravages made by disease
on the continent. But with the encreased mortality this intercourse declined and ceased. Even
in England itself communication from one part of the island to the other became slow and rare.
No vessel stemmed the flood that divided Calais from Dover; or if some melancholy voyager,
wishing to assure himself of the life or death of his relatives, put from the French shore
to return among us, often the greedy ocean swallowed his little craft, or after a day or two
he was infected by the disorder, and died before he could tell the tale of the desolation of
France. We were therefore to a great degree ignorant of the state of things on the continent,
and were not without some vague hope of finding numerous companions in its wide track. But
the same causes that had so fearfully diminished the English nation had had even greater scope
for mischief in the sister land. France was a blank; during the long line of road from Calais
to Paris not one human being was found. In Paris there were a few, perhaps a hundred, who,
resigned to their coming fate, flitted about the streets of the capital and assembled to converse
of past times, with that vivacity and even gaiety that seldom deserts the individuals of this
nation.

The English took uncontested possession of Paris. Its high houses and narrow streets were lifeless.
A few pale figures were to be distinguished at the accustomed resort at the Tuileries; they
wondered wherefore the islanders should approach their ill-fated city--for in the excess of
wretchedness, the sufferers always imagine, that their part of the calamity is the bitterest,
as, when enduring intense pain, we would exchange the particular torture we writhe under, for
any other which should visit a different part of the frame. They listened to the account the
emigrants gave of their motives for leaving their native land, with a shrug almost of disdain--"Return,"
they said, "return to your island, whose sea breezes, and division from the continent gives
some promise of health; if Pestilence among you has slain its hundreds, with us it has slain
its thousands. Are you not even now more numerous than we are?--A year ago you would have found
only the sick burying the dead; now we are happier; for the pang of struggle has passed away,
and the few you find here are patiently waiting the final blow. But you, who are not content
to die, breathe no longer the air of France, or soon you will only be a part of her soil."

Thus, by menaces of the sword, they would have driven back those who had escaped from fire.
But the peril left behind was deemed imminent by my countrymen; that before them doubtful and
distant; and soon other feelings arose to obliterate fear, or to replace it by passions, that
ought to have had no place among a brotherhood of unhappy survivors of the expiring world.

The more numerous division of emigrants, which arrived first at Paris, assumed a superiority
of rank and power; the second party asserted their independence. A third was formed by a sectarian,
a self-erected prophet, who, while he attributed all power and rule to God, strove to get the
real command of his comrades into his own hands. This third division consisted of fewest individuals,
but their purpose was more one, their obedience to their leader more entire, their fortitude
and courage more unyielding and active.

During the whole progress of the plague, the teachers of religion were in possession of great
power; a power of good, if rightly directed, or of incalculable mischief, if fanaticism or
intolerance guided their efforts. In the present instance, a worse feeling than either of these
actuated the leader. He was an impostor in the most determined sense of the term. A man who
had in early life lost, through the indulgence of vicious propensities, all sense of rectitude
or self-esteem; and who, when ambition was awakened in him, gave himself up to its influence
unbridled by any scruple. His father had been a methodist preacher, an enthusiastic man with
simple intentions; but whose pernicious doctrines of election and special grace had contributed
to destroy all conscientious feeling in his son. During the progress of the pestilence he had
entered upon various schemes, by which to acquire adherents and power. Adrian had discovered
and defeated these attempts; but Adrian was absent; the wolf assumed the shepherd's garb, and
the flock admitted the deception: he had formed a party during the few weeks he had been in
Paris, who zealously propagated the creed of his divine mission, and believed that safety and
salvation were to be afforded only to those who put their trust in him.

When once the spirit of dissension had arisen, the most frivolous causes gave it activity.
The first party, on arriving at Paris, had taken possession of the Tuileries; chance and friendly
feeling had induced the second to lodge near to them. A contest arose concerning the distribution
of the pillage; the chiefs of the first division demanded that the whole should be placed at
their disposal; with this assumption the opposite party refused to comply. When next the latter
went to forage, the gates of Paris were shut on them. After overcoming this difficulty, they
marched in a body to the Tuileries. They found that their enemies had been already expelled
thence by the Elect, as the fanatical party designated themselves, who refused to admit any
into the palace who did not first abjure obedience to all except God, and his delegate on earth,
their chief. Such was the beginning of the strife, which at length proceeded so far, that the
three divisions, armed, met in the Place Vendome, each resolved to subdue by force the resistance
of its adversaries. They assembled, their muskets were loaded, and even pointed at the breasts
of their so called enemies. One word had been sufficient; and there the last of mankind would
have burthened their souls with the crime of murder, and dipt their hands in each other's blood.
A sense of shame, a recollection that not only their cause, but the existence of the whole
human race was at stake, entered the breast of the leader of the more numerous party. He was
aware, that if the ranks were thinned, no other recruits could fill them up; that each man
was as a priceless gem in a kingly crown, which if destroyed, the earth's deep entrails could
yield no paragon. He was a young man, and had been hurried on by presumption, and the notion
of his high rank and superiority to all other pretenders; now he repented his work, he felt
that all the blood about to be shed would be on his head; with sudden impulse therefore he
spurred his horse between the bands, and, having fixed a white handkerchief on the point of
his uplifted sword, thus demanded parley; the opposite leaders obeyed the signal. He spoke
with warmth; he reminded them of the oath all the chiefs had taken to submit to the Lord Protector;
he declared their present meeting to be an act of treason and mutiny; he allowed that he had
been hurried away by passion, but that a cooler moment had arrived; and he proposed that each
party should send deputies to the Earl of Windsor, inviting his interference and offering submission
to his decision. His offer was accepted so far, that each leader consented to command a retreat,
and moreover agreed, that after the approbation of their several parties had been consulted,
they should meet that night on some neutral spot to ratify the truce. At the meeting of the
chiefs, this plan was finally concluded upon. The leader of the fanatics indeed refused to
admit the arbitration of Adrian; he sent ambassadors, rather than deputies, to assert his claim,
not plead his cause.

The truce was to continue until the first of February, when the bands were again to assemble
on the Place Vendome; it was of the utmost consequence therefore that Adrian should arrive
in Paris by that day, since an hair might turn the scale, and peace, scared away by intestine
broils, might only return to watch by the silent dead. It was now the twenty-eighth of January;
every vessel stationed near Dover had been beaten to pieces and destroyed by the furious storms
I have commemorated. Our journey however would admit of no delay. That very night, Adrian,
and I, and twelve others, either friends or attendants, put off from the English shore, in
the boat that had brought over the deputies. We all took our turn at the oar; and the immediate
occasion of our departure affording us abundant matter for conjecture and discourse, prevented
the feeling that we left our native country, depopulate England, for the last time, to enter
deeply into the minds of the greater part of our number. It was a serene starlight night, and
the dark line of the English coast continued for some time visible at intervals, as we rose
on the broad back of the waves. I exerted myself with my long oar to give swift impulse to
our skiff; and, while the waters splashed with melancholy sound against its sides, I looked
with sad affection on this last glimpse of sea-girt England, and strained my eyes not too soon
to lose sight of the castellated cliff, which rose to protect the land of heroism and beauty
from the inroads of ocean, that, turbulent as I had lately seen it, required such cyclopean
walls for its repulsion. A solitary sea-gull winged its flight over our heads, to seek its
nest in a cleft of the precipice. Yes, thou shalt revisit the land of thy birth, I thought,
as I looked invidiously on the airy voyager; but we shall, never more! Tomb of Idris, farewell!
Grave, in which my heart lies sepultured, farewell for ever!

We were twelve hours at sea, and the heavy swell obliged us to exert all our strength. At length,
by mere dint of rowing, we reached the French coast. The stars faded, and the grey morning
cast a dim veil over the silver horns of the waning moon--the sun rose broad and red from the
sea, as we walked over the sands to Calais. Our first care was to procure horses, and although
wearied by our night of watching and toil, some of our party immediately went in quest of these
in the wide fields of the unenclosed and now barren plain round Calais. We divided ourselves,
like seamen, into watches, and some reposed, while others prepared the morning's repast. Our
foragers returned at noon with only six horses--on these, Adrian and I, and four others, proceeded
on our journey towards the great city, which its inhabitants had fondly named the capital of
the civilized world. Our horses had become, through their long holiday, almost wild, and we
crossed the plain round Calais with impetuous speed. From the height near Boulogne, I turned
again to look on England; nature had cast a misty pall over her, her cliff was hidden--there
was spread the watery barrier that divided us, never again to be crossed; she lay on the ocean
plain,

  In the great pool a swan's nest.

Ruined the nest, alas! the swans of Albion had passed away for ever--an uninhabited rock in
the wide Pacific, which had remained since the creation uninhabited, unnamed, unmarked, would
be of as much account in the world's future history, as desert England.

Our journey was impeded by a thousand obstacles. As our horses grew tired, we had to seek for
others; and hours were wasted, while we exhausted our artifices to allure some of these enfranchised
slaves of man to resume the yoke; or as we went from stable to stable through the towns, hoping
to find some who had not forgotten the shelter of their native stalls. Our ill success in procuring
them, obliged us continually to leave some one of our companions behind; and on the first of
February, Adrian and I entered Paris, wholly unaccompanied. The serene morning had dawned when
we arrived at Saint Denis, and the sun was high, when the clamour of voices, and the clash,
as we feared, of weapons, guided us to where our countrymen had assembled on the Place Vendome.
We passed a knot of Frenchmen, who were talking earnestly of the madness of the insular invaders,
and then coming by a sudden turn upon the Place, we saw the sun glitter on drawn swords and
fixed bayonets, while yells and clamours rent the air. It was a scene of unaccustomed confusion
in these days of depopulation. Roused by fancied wrongs, and insulting scoffs, the opposite
parties had rushed to attack each other; while the elect, drawn up apart, seemed to wait an
opportunity to fall with better advantage on their foes, when they should have mutually weakened
each other. A merciful power interposed, and no blood was shed; for, while the insane mob were
in the very act of attack, the females, wives, mothers and daughters, rushed between; they
seized the bridles; they embraced the knees of the horsemen, and hung on the necks, or enweaponed
arms of their enraged relatives; the shrill female scream was mingled with the manly shout,
and formed the wild clamour that welcomed us on our arrival.

Our voices could not be heard in the tumult; Adrian however was eminent for the white charger
he rode; spurring him, he dashed into the midst of the throng: he was recognized, and a loud
cry raised for England and the Protector. The late adversaries, warmed to affection at the
sight of him, joined in heedless confusion, and surrounded him; the women kissed his hands,
and the edges of his garments; nay, his horse received tribute of their embraces; some wept
their welcome; he appeared an angel of peace descended among them; and the only danger was,
that his mortal nature would be demonstrated, by his suffocation from the kindness of his friends.
His voice was at length heard, and obeyed; the crowd fell back; the chiefs alone rallied round
him. I had seen Lord Raymond ride through his lines; his look of victory, and majestic mien
obtained the respect and obedience of all: such was not the appearance or influence of Adrian.
His slight figure, his fervent look, his gesture, more of deprecation than rule, were proofs
that love, unmingled with fear, gave him dominion over the hearts of a multitude, who knew
that he never flinched from danger, nor was actuated by other motives than care for the general
welfare. No distinction was now visible between the two parties, late ready to shed each other's
blood, for, though neither would submit to the other, they both yielded ready obedience to
the Earl of Windsor.

One party however remained, cut off from the rest, which did not sympathize in the joy exhibited
on Adrian's arrival, or imbibe the spirit of peace, which fell like dew upon the softened hearts
of their countrymen. At the head of this assembly was a ponderous, dark-looking man, whose
malign eye surveyed with gloating delight the stern looks of his followers. They had hitherto
been inactive, but now, perceiving themselves to be forgotten in the universal jubilee, they
advanced with threatening gestures: our friends had, as it were in wanton contention, attacked
each other; they wanted but to be told that their cause was one, for it to become so: their
mutual anger had been a fire of straw, compared to the slow-burning hatred they both entertained
for these seceders, who seized a portion of the world to come, there to entrench and incastellate
themselves, and to issue with fearful sally, and appalling denunciations, on the mere common
children of the earth. The first advance of the little army of the elect reawakened their rage;
they grasped their arms, and waited but their leader's signal to commence the attack, when
the clear tones of Adrian's voice were heard, commanding them to fall back; with confused murmur
and hurried retreat, as the wave ebbs clamorously from the sands it lately covered, our friends
obeyed. Adrian rode singly into the space between the opposing bands; he approached the hostile
leader, as requesting him to imitate his example, but his look was not obeyed, and the chief
advanced, followed by his whole troop. There were many women among them, who seemed more eager
and resolute than their male companions. They pressed round their leader, as if to shield him,
while they loudly bestowed on him every sacred denomination and epithet of worship. Adrian
met them half way; they halted: "What," he said, "do you seek? Do you require any thing of
us that we refuse to give, and that you are forced to acquire by arms and warfare?"

His questions were answered by a general cry, in which the words election, sin, and red right
arm of God, could alone be heard.

Adrian looked expressly at their leader, saying, "Can you not silence your followers? Mine,
you perceive, obey me."

The fellow answered by a scowl; and then, perhaps fearful that his people should become auditors
of the debate he expected to ensue, he commanded them to fall back, and advanced by himself.
"What, I again ask," said Adrian, "do you require of us?"

"Repentance," replied the man, whose sinister brow gathered clouds as he spoke. "Obedience
to the will of the Most High, made manifest to these his Elected People. Do we not all die
through your sins, O generation of unbelief, and have we not a right to demand of you repentance
and obedience?"

"And if we refuse them, what then?" his opponent inquired mildly.

"Beware," cried the man, "God hears you, and will smite your stony heart in his wrath; his
poisoned arrows fly, his dogs of death are unleashed! We will not perish unrevenged--and mighty
will our avenger be, when he descends in visible majesty, and scatters destruction among you."

"My good fellow," said Adrian, with quiet scorn, "I wish that you were ignorant only, and I
think it would be no difficult task to prove to you, that you speak of what you do not understand.
On the present occasion however, it is enough for me to know that you seek nothing of us; and,
heaven is our witness, we seek nothing of you. I should be sorry to embitter by strife the
few days that we any of us may have here to live; when there," he pointed downwards, "we shall
not be able to contend, while here we need not. Go home, or stay; pray to your God in your
own mode; your friends may do the like. My orisons consist in peace and good will, in resignation
and hope. Farewell!"

He bowed slightly to the angry disputant who was about to reply; and, turning his horse down
Rue Saint Honore, called on his friends to follow him. He rode slowly, to give time to all
to join him at the Barrier, and then issued his orders that those who yielded obedience to
him, should rendezvous at Versailles. In the meantime he remained within the walls of Paris,
until he had secured the safe retreat of all. In about a fortnight the remainder of the emigrants
arrived from England, and they all repaired to Versailles; apartments were prepared for the
family of the Protector in the Grand Trianon, and there, after the excitement of these events,
we reposed amidst the luxuries of the departed Bourbons.

[1] Chorus in Oedipus Coloneus.

CHAPTER V.

AFTER the repose of a few days, we held a council, to decide on our future movements. Our first
plan had been to quit our wintry native latitude, and seek for our diminished numbers the luxuries
and delights of a southern climate. We had not fixed on any precise spot as the termination
of our wanderings; but a vague picture of perpetual spring, fragrant groves, and sparkling
streams, floated in our imagination to entice us on. A variety of causes had detained us in
England, and we had now arrived at the middle of February; if we pursued our original project,
we should find ourselves in a worse situation than before, having exchanged our temperate climate
for the intolerable heats of a summer in Egypt or Persia. We were therefore obliged to modify
our plan, as the season continued to be inclement; and it was determined that we should await
the arrival of spring in our present abode, and so order our future movements as to pass the
hot months in the icy vallies of Switzerland, deferring our southern progress until the ensuing
autumn, if such a season was ever again to be beheld by us.

The castle and town of Versailles afforded our numbers ample accommodation, and foraging parties
took it by turns to supply our wants. There was a strange and appalling motley in the situation
of these the last of the race. At first I likened it to a colony, which borne over the far
seas, struck root for the first time in a new country. But where was the bustle and industry
characteristic of such an assemblage; the rudely constructed dwelling, which was to suffice
till a more commodious mansion could be built; the marking out of fields; the attempt at cultivation;
the eager curiosity to discover unknown animals and herbs; the excursions for the sake of exploring
the country? Our habitations were palaces our food was ready stored in granaries--there was
no need of labour, no inquisitiveness, no restless desire to get on. If we had been assured
that we should secure the lives of our present numbers, there would have been more vivacity
and hope in our councils. We should have discussed as to the period when the existing produce
for man's sustenance would no longer suffice for us, and what mode of life we should then adopt.
We should have considered more carefully our future plans, and debated concerning the spot
where we should in future dwell. But summer and the plague were near, and we dared not look
forward. Every heart sickened at the thought of amusement; if the younger part of our community
were ever impelled, by youthful and untamed hilarity, to enter on any dance or song, to cheer
the melancholy time, they would suddenly break off, checked by a mournful look or agonizing
sigh from any one among them, who was prevented by sorrows and losses from mingling in the
festivity. If laughter echoed under our roof, yet the heart was vacant of joy; and, when ever
it chanced that I witnessed such attempts at pastime, they encreased instead of diminishing
my sense of woe. In the midst of the pleasure-hunting throng, I would close my eyes, and see
before me the obscure cavern, where was garnered the mortality of Idris, and the dead lay around,
mouldering in hushed repose. When I again became aware of the present hour, softest melody
of Lydian flute, or harmonious maze of graceful dance, was but as the demoniac chorus in the
Wolf's Glen, and the caperings of the reptiles that surrounded the magic circle.

My dearest interval of peace occurred, when, released from the obligation of associating with
the crowd, I could repose in the dear home where my children lived. Children I say, for the
tenderest emotions of paternity bound me to Clara. She was now fourteen; sorrow, and deep insight
into the scenes around her, calmed the restless spirit of girlhood; while the remembrance of
her father whom she idolized, and respect for me and Adrian, implanted an high sense of duty
in her young heart. Though serious she was not sad; the eager desire that makes us all, when
young, plume our wings, and stretch our necks, that we may more swiftly alight tiptoe on the
height of maturity, was subdued in her by early experience. All that she could spare of overflowing
love from her parents' memory, and attention to her living relatives, was spent upon religion.
This was the hidden law of her heart, which she concealed with childish reserve, and cherished
the more because it was secret. What faith so entire, what charity so pure, what hope so fervent,
as that of early youth? and she, all love, all tenderness and trust, who from infancy had been
tossed on the wide sea of passion and misfortune, saw the finger of apparent divinity in all,
and her best hope was to make herself acceptable to the power she worshipped. Evelyn was only
five years old; his joyous heart was incapable of sorrow, and he enlivened our house with the
innocent mirth incident to his years.

The aged Countess of Windsor had fallen from her dream of power, rank and grandeur; she had
been suddenly seized with the conviction, that love was the only good of life, virtue the only
ennobling distinction and enriching wealth. Such a lesson had been taught her by the dead lips
of her neglected daughter; and she devoted herself, with all the fiery violence of her character,
to the obtaining the affection of the remnants of her family. In early years the heart of Adrian
had been chilled towards her; and, though he observed a due respect, her coldness, mixed with
the recollection of disappointment and madness, caused him to feel even pain in her society.
She saw this, and yet determined to win his love; the obstacle served the rather to excite
her ambition. As Henry, Emperor of Germany, lay in the snow before Pope Leo's gate for three
winter days and nights, so did she in humility wait before the icy barriers of his closed heart,
till he, the servant of love, and prince of tender courtesy, opened it wide for her admittance,
bestowing, with fervency and gratitude, the tribute of filial affection she merited. Her understanding,
courage, and presence of mind, became powerful auxiliaries to him in the difficult task of
ruling the tumultuous crowd, which were subjected to his control, in truth by a single hair.

The principal circumstances that disturbed our tranquillity during this interval, originated
in the vicinity of the impostor-prophet and his followers. They continued to reside at Paris;
but missionaries from among them often visited Versailles--and such was the power of assertions,
however false, yet vehemently iterated, over the ready credulity of the ignorant and fearful,
that they seldom failed in drawing over to their party some from among our numbers. An instance
of this nature coming immediately under our notice, we were led to consider the miserable state
in which we should leave our countrymen, when we should, at the approach of summer, move on
towards Switzerland, and leave a deluded crew behind us in the hands of their miscreant leader.
The sense of the smallness of our numbers, and expectation of decrease, pressed upon us; and,
while it would be a subject of congratulation to ourselves to add one to our party, it would
be doubly gratifying to rescue from the pernicious influence of superstition and unrelenting
tyranny, the victims that now, though voluntarily enchained, groaned beneath it. If we had
considered the preacher as sincere in a belief of his own denunciations, or only moderately
actuated by kind feeling in the exercise of his assumed powers, we should have immediately
addressed ourselves to him, and endeavoured with our best arguments to soften and humanize
his views. But he was instigated by ambition, he desired to rule over these last stragglers
from the fold of death; his projects went so far, as to cause him to calculate that, if, from
these crushed remains, a few survived, so that a new race should spring up, he, by holding
tight the reins of belief, might be remembered by the post-pestilential race as a patriarch,
a prophet, nay a deity; such as of old among the post-diluvians were Jupiter the conqueror,
Serapis the lawgiver, and Vishnou the preserver. These ideas made him inflexible in his rule,
and violent in his hate of any who presumed to share with him his usurped empire.

It is a strange fact, but incontestible, that the philanthropist, who ardent in his desire
to do good, who patient, reasonable and gentle, yet disdains to use other argument than truth,
has less influence over men's minds, than he who, grasping and selfish, refuses not to adopt
any means, nor awaken any passion, nor diffuse any falsehood, for the advancement of his cause.
If this from time immemorial has been the case, the contrast was infinitely greater, now that
the one could bring harrowing fears and transcendent hopes into play; while the other had few
hopes to hold forth, nor could influence the imagination to diminish the fears which he himself
was the first to entertain. The preacher had persuaded his followers, that their escape from
the plague, the salvation of their children, and the rise of a new race of men from their seed,
depended on their faith in, and their submission to him. They greedily imbibed this belief;
and their over-weening credulity even rendered them eager to make converts to the same faith.

How to seduce any individuals from such an alliance of fraud, was a frequent subject of Adrian's
meditations and discourse. He formed many plans for the purpose; but his own troop kept him
in full occupation to ensure their fidelity and safety; beside which the preacher was as cautious
and prudent, as he was cruel. His victims lived under the strictest rules and laws, which either
entirely imprisoned them within the Tuileries, or let them out in such numbers, and under such
leaders, as precluded the possibility of controversy. There was one among them however whom
I resolved to save; she had been known to us in happier days; Idris had loved her; and her
excellent nature made it peculiarly lamentable that she should be sacrificed by this merciless
cannibal of souls.

This man had between two and three hundred persons enlisted under his banners. More than half
of them were women; there were about fifty children of all ages; and not more than eighty men.
They were mostly drawn from that which, when such distinctions existed, was denominated the
lower rank of society. The exceptions consisted of a few high-born females, who, panic-struck,
and tamed by sorrow, had joined him. Among these was one, young, lovely, and enthusiastic,
whose very goodness made her a more easy victim. I have mentioned her before: Juliet, the youngest
daughter, and now sole relic of the ducal house of L---. There are some beings, whom fate seems
to select on whom to pour, in unmeasured portion, the vials of her wrath, and whom she bathes
even to the lips in misery. Such a one was the ill-starred Juliet. She had lost her indulgent
parents, her brothers and sisters, companions of her youth; in one fell swoop they had been
carried off from her. Yet she had again dared to call herself happy; united to her admirer,
to him who possessed and filled her whole heart, she yielded to the lethean powers of love,
and knew and felt only his life and presence. At the very time when with keen delight she welcomed
the tokens of maternity, this sole prop of her life failed, her husband died of the plague.
For a time she had been lulled in insanity; the birth of her child restored her to the cruel
reality of things, but gave her at the same time an object for whom to preserve at once life
and reason. Every friend and relative had died off, and she was reduced to solitude and penury;
deep melancholy and angry impatience distorted her judgment, so that she could not persuade
herself to disclose her distress to us. When she heard of the plan of universal emigration,
she resolved to remain behind with her child, and alone in wide England to live or die, as
fate might decree, beside the grave of her beloved. She had hidden herself in one of the many
empty habitations of London; it was she who rescued my Idris on the fatal twentieth of November,
though my immediate danger, and the subsequent illness of Idris, caused us to forget our hapless
friend. This circumstance had however brought her again in contact with her fellow-creatures;
a slight illness of her infant, proved to her that she was still bound to humanity by an indestructible
tie; to preserve this little creature's life became the object of her being, and she joined
the first division of migrants who went over to Paris.

She became an easy prey to the methodist; her sensibility and acute fears rendered her accessible
to every impulse; her love for her child made her eager to cling to the merest straw held out
to save him. Her mind, once unstrung, and now tuned by roughest inharmonious hands, made her
credulous: beautiful as fabled goddess, with voice of unrivalled sweetness, burning with new
lighted enthusiasm, she became a stedfast proselyte, and powerful auxiliary to the leader of
the elect. I had remarked her in the crowd, on the day we met on the Place Vendome; and, recollecting
suddenly her providential rescue of my lost one, on the night of the twentieth of November,
I reproached myself for my neglect and ingratitude, and felt impelled to leave no means that
I could adopt untried, to recall her to her better self, and rescue her from the fangs of the
hypocrite destroyer.

I will not, at this period of my story, record the artifices I used to penetrate the asylum
of the Tuileries, or give what would be a tedious account of my stratagems, disappointments,
and perseverance. I at last succeeded in entering these walls, and roamed its halls and corridors
in eager hope to find my selected convert. In the evening I contrived to mingle unobserved
with the congregation, which assembled in the chapel to listen to the crafty and eloquent harangue
of their prophet. I saw Juliet near him. Her dark eyes, fearfully impressed with the restless
glare of madness, were fixed on him; she held her infant, not yet a year old, in her arms;
and care of it alone could distract her attention from the words to which she eagerly listened.
After the sermon was over, the congregation dispersed; all quitted the chapel except she whom
I sought; her babe had fallen asleep; so she placed it on a cushion, and sat on the floor beside,
watching its tranquil slumber.

I presented myself to her; for a moment natural feeling produced a sentiment of gladness, which
disappeared again, when with ardent and affectionate exhortation I besought her to accompany
me in flight from this den of superstition and misery. In a moment she relapsed into the delirium
of fanaticism, and, but that her gentle nature forbade, would have loaded me with execrations.
She conjured me, she commanded me to leave her-- "Beware, O beware," she cried, "fly while
yet your escape is practicable. Now you are safe; but strange sounds and inspirations come
on me at times, and if the Eternal should in awful whisper reveal to me his will, that to save
my child you must be sacrificed, I would call in the satellites of him you call the tyrant;
they would tear you limb from limb; nor would I hallow the death of him whom Idris loved, by
a single tear."

She spoke hurriedly, with tuneless voice, and wild look; her child awoke, and, frightened,
began to cry; each sob went to the ill-fated mother's heart, and she mingled the epithets of
endearment she addressed to her infant, with angry commands that I should leave her. Had I
had the means, I would have risked all, have torn her by force from the murderer's den, and
trusted to the healing balm of reason and affection. But I had no choice, no power even of
longer struggle; steps were heard along the gallery, and the voice of the preacher drew near.
Juliet, straining her child in a close embrace, fled by another passage. Even then I would
have followed her; but my foe and his satellites entered; I was surrounded, and taken prisoner.

I remembered the menace of the unhappy Juliet, and expected the full tempest of the man's vengeance,
and the awakened wrath of his followers, to fall instantly upon me. I was questioned. My answers
were simple and sincere. "His own mouth condemns him," exclaimed the impostor; "he confesses
that his intention was to seduce from the way of salvation our well-beloved sister in God;
away with him to the dungeon; to-morrow he dies the death; we are manifestly called upon to
make an example, tremendous and appalling, to scare the children of sin from our asylum of
the saved."

My heart revolted from his hypocritical jargon: but it was unworthy of me to combat in words
with the ruffian; and my answer was cool; while, far from being possessed with fear, methought,
even at the worst, a man true to himself, courageous and determined, could fight his way, even
from the boards of the scaffold, through the herd of these misguided maniacs. "Remember," I
said, "who I am; and be well assured that I shall not die unavenged. Your legal magistrate,
the Lord Protector, knew of my design, and is aware that I am here; the cry of blood will reach
him, and you and your miserable victims will long lament the tragedy you are about to act."

My antagonist did not deign to reply, even by a look;--"You know your duty," he said to his
comrades,--"obey."

In a moment I was thrown on the earth, bound, blindfolded, and hurried away --liberty of limb
and sight was only restored to me, when, surrounded by dungeon-walls, dark and impervious,
I found myself a prisoner and alone.

Such was the result of my attempt to gain over the proselyte of this man of crime; I could
not conceive that he would dare put me to death.--Yet I was in his hands; the path of his ambition
had ever been dark and cruel; his power was founded upon fear; the one word which might cause
me to die, unheard, unseen, in the obscurity of my dungeon, might be easier to speak than the
deed of mercy to act. He would not risk probably a public execution; but a private assassination
would at once terrify any of my companions from attempting a like feat, at the same time that
a cautious line of conduct might enable him to avoid the enquiries and the vengeance of Adrian.

Two months ago, in a vault more obscure than the one I now inhabited, I had revolved the design
of quietly laying me down to die; now I shuddered at the approach of fate. My imagination was
busied in shaping forth the kind of death he would inflict. Would he allow me to wear out life
with famine; or was the food administered to me to be medicined with death? Would he steal
on me in my sleep; or should I contend to the last with my murderers, knowing, even while I
struggled, that I must be overcome? I lived upon an earth whose diminished population a child's
arithmetic might number; I had lived through long months with death stalking close at my side,
while at intervals the shadow of his skeleton-shape darkened my path. I had believed that I
despised the grim phantom, and laughed his power to scorn.

Any other fate I should have met with courage, nay, have gone out gallantly to encounter. But
to be murdered thus at the midnight hour by cold-blooded assassins, no friendly hand to close
my eyes, or receive my parting blessing--to die in combat, hate and execration--ah, why, my
angel love, didst thou restore me to life, when already I had stepped within the portals of
the tomb, now that so soon again I was to be flung back a mangled corpse!

Hours passed--centuries. Could I give words to the many thoughts which occupied me in endless
succession during this interval, I should fill volumes. The air was dank, the dungeon-floor
mildewed and icy cold; hunger came upon me too, and no sound reached me from without. To-morrow
the ruffian had declared that I should die. When would to-morrow come? Was it not already here?

My door was about to be opened. I heard the key turn, and the bars and bolts slowly removed.
The opening of intervening passages permitted sounds from the interior of the palace to reach
me; and I heard the clock strike one. They come to murder me, I thought; this hour does not
befit a public execution. I drew myself up against the wall opposite the entrance; I collected
my forces, I rallied my courage, I would not fall a tame prey. Slowly the door receded on its
hinges--I was ready to spring forward to seize and grapple with the intruder, till the sight
of who it was changed at once the temper of my mind. It was Juliet herself; pale and trembling
she stood, a lamp in her hand, on the threshold of the dungeon, looking at me with wistful
countenance. But in a moment she re-assumed her self-possession; and her languid eyes recovered
their brilliancy. She said, "I am come to save you, Verney."

"And yourself also," I cried: "dearest friend, can we indeed be saved?"

"Not a word," she replied, "follow me!"

I obeyed instantly. We threaded with light steps many corridors, ascended several flights of
stairs, and passed through long galleries; at the end of one she unlocked a low portal; a rush
of wind extinguished our lamp; but, in lieu of it, we had the blessed moon-beams and the open
face of heaven. Then first Juliet spoke:--"You are safe," she said, "God bless you!-- farewell!"

I seized her reluctant hand--"Dear friend," I cried, "misguided victim, do you not intend to
escape with me? Have you not risked all in facilitating my flight? and do you think, that I
will permit you to return, and suffer alone the effects of that miscreant's rage? Never!"

"Do not fear for me," replied the lovely girl mournfully, "and do not imagine that without
the consent of our chief you could be without these walls. It is he that has saved you; he
assigned to me the part of leading you hither, because I am best acquainted with your motives
for coming here, and can best appreciate his mercy in permitting you to depart."

"And are you," I cried, "the dupe of this man? He dreads me alive as an enemy, and dead he
fears my avengers. By favouring this clandestine escape he preserves a shew of consistency
to his followers; but mercy is far from his heart. Do you forget his artifices, his cruelty,
and fraud? As I am free, so are you. Come, Juliet, the mother of our lost Idris will welcome
you, the noble Adrian will rejoice to receive you; you will find peace and love, and better
hopes than fanaticism can afford. Come, and fear not; long before day we shall be at Versailles;
close the door on this abode of crime --come, sweet Juliet, from hypocrisy and guilt to the
society of the affectionate and good."

I spoke hurriedly, but with fervour: and while with gentle violence I drew her from the portal,
some thought, some recollection of past scenes of youth and happiness, made her listen and
yield to me; suddenly she broke away with a piercing shriek:--"My child, my child! he has my
child; my darling girl is my hostage."

She darted from me into the passage; the gate closed between us--she was left in the fangs
of this man of crime, a prisoner, still to inhale the pestilential atmosphere which adhered
to his demoniac nature; the unimpeded breeze played on my cheek, the moon shone graciously
upon me, my path was free. Glad to have escaped, yet melancholy in my very joy, I retrod my
steps to Versailles.

CHAPTER VI.

EVENTFUL winter passed; winter, the respite of our ills. By degrees the sun, which with slant
beams had before yielded the more extended reign to night, lengthened his diurnal journey,
and mounted his highest throne, at once the fosterer of earth's new beauty, and her lover.
We who, like flies that congregate upon a dry rock at the ebbing of the tide, had played wantonly
with time, allowing our passions, our hopes, and our mad desires to rule us, now heard the
approaching roar of the ocean of destruction, and would have fled to some sheltered crevice,
before the first wave broke over us. We resolved without delay, to commence our journey to
Switzerland; we became eager to leave France. Under the icy vaults of the glaciers, beneath
the shadow of the pines, the swinging of whose mighty branches was arrested by a load of snow;
beside the streams whose intense cold proclaimed their origin to be from the slow-melting piles
of congelated waters, amidst frequent storms which might purify the air, we should find health,
if in truth health were not herself diseased.

We began our preparations at first with alacrity. We did not now bid adieu to our native country,
to the graves of those we loved, to the flowers, and streams, and trees, which had lived beside
us from infancy. Small sorrow would be ours on leaving Paris. A scene of shame, when we remembered
our late contentions, and thought that we left behind a flock of miserable, deluded victims,
bending under the tyranny of a selfish impostor. Small pangs should we feel in leaving the
gardens, woods, and halls of the palaces of the Bourbons at Versailles, which we feared would
soon be tainted by the dead, when we looked forward to vallies lovelier than any garden, to
mighty forests and halls, built not for mortal majesty, but palaces of nature's own, with the
Alp of marmoreal whiteness for their walls, the sky for their roof.

Yet our spirits flagged, as the day drew near which we had fixed for our departure. Dire visions
and evil auguries, if such things were, thickened around us, so that in vain might men say--

  These are their reasons, they are natural,[1]

we felt them to be ominous, and dreaded the future event enchained to them. That the night
owl should screech before the noon-day sun, that the hard-winged bat should wheel around the
bed of beauty, that muttering thunder should in early spring startle the cloudless air, that
sudden and exterminating blight should fall on the tree and shrub, were unaccustomed, but physical
events, less horrible than the mental creations of almighty fear. Some had sight of funeral
processions, and faces all begrimed with tears, which flitted through the long avenues of the
gardens, and drew aside the curtains of the sleepers at dead of night. Some heard wailing and
cries in the air; a mournful chaunt would stream through the dark atmosphere, as if spirits
above sang the requiem of the human race. What was there in all this, but that fear created
other senses within our frames, making us see, hear, and feel what was not? What was this,
but the action of diseased imaginations and childish credulity? So might it be; but what was
most real, was the existence of these very fears; the staring looks of horror, the faces pale
even to ghastliness, the voices struck dumb with harrowing dread, of those among us who saw
and heard these things. Of this number was Adrian, who knew the delusion, yet could not cast
off the clinging terror. Even ignorant infancy appeared with timorous shrieks and convulsions
to acknowledge the presence of unseen powers. We must go: in change of scene, in occupation,
and such security as we still hoped to find, we should discover a cure for these gathering horrors.

On mustering our company, we found them to consist of fourteen hundred souls, men, women, and
children. Until now therefore, we were undiminished in numbers, except by the desertion of
those who had attached themselves to the impostor-prophet, and remained behind in Paris. About
fifty French joined us. Our order of march was easily arranged; the ill success which had attended
our division, determined Adrian to keep all in one body. I, with an hundred men, went forward
first as purveyor, taking the road of the Cote d'Or, through Auxerre, Dijon, Dole, over the
Jura to Geneva. I was to make arrangements, at every ten miles, for the accommodation of such
numbers as I found the town or village would receive, leaving behind a messenger with a written
order, signifying how many were to be quartered there. The remainder of our tribe was then
divided into bands of fifty each, every division containing eighteen men, and the remainder,
consisting of women and children. Each of these was headed by an officer, who carried the roll
of names, by which they were each day to be mustered. If the numbers were divided at night,
in the morning those in the van waited for those in the rear. At each of the large towns before
mentioned, we were all to assemble; and a conclave of the principal officers would hold council
for the general weal. I went first, as I said; Adrian last. His mother, with Clara and Evelyn
under her protection, remained also with him. Thus our order being determined, I departed.
My plan was to go at first no further than Fontainebleau, where in a few days I should be joined
by Adrian, before I took flight again further eastward.

My friend accompanied me a few miles from Versailles. He was sad; and, in a tone of unaccustomed
despondency, uttered a prayer for our speedy arrival among the Alps, accompanied with an expression
of vain regret that we were not already there. "In that case," I observed, "we can quicken
our march; why adhere to a plan whose dilatory proceeding you already disapprove?"

"Nay," replied he, "it is too late now. A month ago, and we were masters of ourselves; now,--"
he turned his face from me; though gathering twilight had already veiled its expression, he
turned it yet more away, as he added --"a man died of the plague last night!"

He spoke in a smothered voice, then suddenly clasping his hands, he exclaimed, "Swiftly, most
swiftly advances the last hour for us all; as the stars vanish before the sun, so will his
near approach destroy us. I have done my best; with grasping hands and impotent strength, I
have hung on the wheel of the chariot of plague; but she drags me along with it, while, like
Juggernaut, she proceeds crushing out the being of all who strew the high road of life. Would
that it were over--would that her procession achieved, we had all entered the tomb together!"

Tears streamed from his eyes. "Again and again," he continued, "will the tragedy be acted;
again I must hear the groans of the dying, the wailing of the survivors; again witness the
pangs, which, consummating all, envelope an eternity in their evanescent existence. Why am
I reserved for this? Why the tainted wether of the flock, am I not struck to earth among the
first? It is hard, very hard, for one of woman born to endure all that I endure!"

Hitherto, with an undaunted spirit, and an high feeling of duty and worth, Adrian had fulfilled
his self-imposed task. I had contemplated him with reverence, and a fruitless desire of imitation.
I now offered a few words of encouragement and sympathy. He hid his face in his hands, and
while he strove to calm himself, he ejaculated, "For a few months, yet for a few months more,
let not, O God, my heart fail, or my courage be bowed down; let not sights of intolerable misery
madden this half-crazed brain, or cause this frail heart to beat against its prison-bound,
so that it burst. I have believed it to be my destiny to guide and rule the last of the race
of man, till death extinguish my government; and to this destiny I submit.

"Pardon me, Verney, I pain you, but I will no longer complain. Now I am myself again, or rather
I am better than myself. You have known how from my childhood aspiring thoughts and high desires
have warred with inherent disease and overstrained sensitiveness, till the latter became victors.
You know how I placed this wasted feeble hand on the abandoned helm of human government. I
have been visited at times by intervals of fluctuation; yet, until now, I have felt as if a
superior and indefatigable spirit had taken up its abode within me or rather incorporated itself
with my weaker being. The holy visitant has for a time slept, perhaps to show me how powerless
I am without its inspiration. Yet, stay for a while, O Power of goodness and strength; disdain
not yet this rent shrine of fleshly mortality, O immortal Capability! While one fellow creature
remains to whom aid can be afforded, stay by and prop your shattered, falling engine!"

His vehemence, and voice broken by irrepressible sighs, sunk to my heart; his eyes gleamed
in the gloom of night like two earthly stars; and, his form dilating, his countenance beaming,
truly it almost seemed as if at his eloquent appeal a more than mortal spirit entered his frame,
exalting him above humanity. He turned quickly towards me, and held out his hand. "Farewell,
Verney," he cried, "brother of my love, farewell; no other weak expression must cross these
lips, I am alive again: to our tasks, to our combats with our unvanquishable foe, for to the
last I will struggle against her."

He grasped my hand, and bent a look on me, more fervent and animated than any smile; then turning
his horse's head, he touched the animal with the spur, and was out of sight in a moment.

A man last night had died of the plague. The quiver was not emptied, nor the bow unstrung.
We stood as marks, while Parthian Pestilence aimed and shot, insatiated by conquest, unobstructed
by the heaps of slain. A sickness of the soul, contagious even to my physical mechanism, came
over me. My knees knocked together, my teeth chattered, the current of my blood, clotted by
sudden cold, painfully forced its way from my heavy heart. I did not fear for myself, but it
was misery to think that we could not even save this remnant. That those I loved might in a
few days be as clay-cold as Idris in her antique tomb; nor could strength of body or energy
of mind ward off the blow. A sense of degradation came over me. Did God create man, merely
in the end to become dead earth in the midst of healthful vegetating nature? Was he of no more
account to his Maker, than a field of corn blighted in the ear? Were our proud dreams thus
to fade? Our name was written "a little lower than the angels;" and, behold, we were no better
than ephemera. We had called ourselves the "paragon of animals," and, lo! we were a "quint-essence
of dust." We repined that the pyramids had outlasted the embalmed body of their builder. Alas!
the mere shepherd's hut of straw we passed on the road, contained in its structure the principle
of greater longevity than the whole race of man. How reconcile this sad change to our past
aspirations, to our apparent powers!

Sudden an internal voice, articulate and clear, seemed to say:--Thus from eternity, it was
decreed: the steeds that bear Time onwards had this hour and this fulfilment enchained to them,
since the void brought forth its burthen. Would you read backwards the unchangeable laws of
Necessity?

Mother of the world! Servant of the Omnipotent! eternal, changeless Necessity! who with busy
fingers sittest ever weaving the indissoluble chain of events!--I will not murmur at thy acts.
If my human mind cannot acknowledge that all that is, is right; yet since what is, must be,
I will sit amidst the ruins and smile. Truly we were not born to enjoy, but to submit, and to hope.

Will not the reader tire, if I should minutely describe our long-drawn journey from Paris to
Geneva? If, day by day, I should record, in the form of a journal, the thronging miseries of
our lot, could my hand write, or language afford words to express, the variety of our woe;
the hustling and crowding of one deplorable event upon another? Patience, oh reader! whoever
thou art, wherever thou dwellest, whether of race spiritual, or, sprung from some surviving
pair, thy nature will be human, thy habitation the earth; thou wilt here read of the acts of
the extinct race, and wilt ask wonderingly, if they, who suffered what thou findest recorded,
were of frail flesh and soft organization like thyself. Most true, they were-- weep therefore;
for surely, solitary being, thou wilt be of gentle disposition; shed compassionate tears; but
the while lend thy attention to the tale, and learn the deeds and sufferings of thy predecessors.

